Our job now is to rally millions of Americans against this disastrous Republican bill to make sure that it does not pass the Senate.
The Republican  health care  bill is a disaster. It has nothing to do with health care and everything to do with tax breaks for the wealthy.
Today we defend the Affordable Care Act. Tomorrow we fight for a Medicare-for-all, single payer system.
People who can t afford health care do not deserve to die. I don t know how we can make it any clearer than that.
How can you call something health care reform  when millions of people lose their health insurance?
Congratulations to all those participating in the #climatemarch. We will fight Trump who thinks climate change is a hoax.
No, @realDonaldTrump. Giving huge tax breaks to billionaires is not standing up for working families.
We will not rest until every worker in America has the fundamental right to make at least $15 an hour.
Mr. Trump: instead of scapegoating the undocumented, work with us to provide a path toward citizenship.
Thank you @CecileRichards for being with me in Las Vegas today.
Women in this country will control their own bodies. Not the United States government.
I applaud the energy and activism in @ossoff's campaign. His victory would be an important step in fighting back against Trump's agenda.
How many yachts do billionaires need? How many cars do they need? Give us a break. You can't have it all.
You don't stand with workers when you propose massive tax cuts for the rich and take health care away from millions of Americans.
You don't stand with workers when you propose massive increases in military spending but cut back on programs for the elderly and children.
Donald Trump said he would stand with the working people of this country. Good speech but unfortunately it wasn't true.
We need to make the Democratic Party a party not just for the east coast and west coast but a party for all 50 states.
I want to talk about a radical concept. It's called democracy. It's about government of the people, by the people and for the people.
Rob Quist is a populist, grassroots candidate fighting for the working families of Montana. I look forward to campaigning with him in May.
I want to congratulate @JamesThompsonKS and the progressive community in Kansas for running a great campaign.
The election results in Kansas show that people are catching on to the fact that Donald Trump is doing the opposite of what he promised.
Our military budget is larger than the next 12 nations combined. We do not need to spend more. We need to take care of our people.
It is easy to go to war with other countries. It is not so easy to comprehend the unintended consequences of that war.
The goal of a health care system should be to keep people well, not to make stockholders rich.
Women are making 81% of what men make and for women of color it s even less. That's nothing but sexism and discrimination. #EqualPayDay
I oppose the nomination of Neil Gorsuch. I can't support giving a man with his views a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court.
Now more than ever we need people in elected office who will fight for working families. That s why I'm pleased to endorse @tomperriello.
My parents' dream was that if they worked hard as parents they'd see their kids go to college. We must keep that promise to every family.
In a global economy we need the best educated workforce in the world, not the one where people cannot afford a higher education.
We need to educate all our people in order to address the crises facing us. The way to do that is making higher education affordable to all.
A student who studies hard gets hit with insurmountable debt, yet bankers who crashed our economy got a bailout. How does that make sense?
Real change will not be led from Washington, DC. It will be led at the grassroots level in 50 states.
Remember: defeating Republicans  Obamacare repeal was just the start. Our job is to keep fighting for affordable health care for everyone.
Ordinary people are taking matters into their own hands to transform our energy system, with or without Washington's help. That matters.
Mr. Trump: We have come too far in this country in overcoming racism, sexism, xenophobia and homophobia to go back.
38 years ago, the top 0.1% owned about 7% of our nation s wealth. Today, that same 0.1% owns 22% of the wealth.
This is the United States of America. We should not have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on earth.
Republicans have the money, but we have the people. And when we organize we are going to create the nation we all know we can become.
The American people don't believe we should throw millions of people who have been here for years, raising their kids, out of this country.
Unbelievably, 20 Americans own as much wealth as the bottom half of America. One family, the Waltons, owns more wealth than the bottom 42%.
We now must take on a horrific Republican budget and efforts at tax reform which means huge tax breaks to billionaires and corporations.
We must be clear. This important victory against the Republican health care plan is not the end of our work. It is the beginning.
Our true goal is not just stopping Republicans from destroying health care. Our goal is guaranteeing health care as a right to all people.
Republicans are scrambling on their health care plan and they are embarrassed. They re on the defensive. Keep fighting back.
Republicans' health care plan tax breaks for millionaires and raised premiums for seniors isn t what a civilized society is about.
Trump promised  insurance for everybody.  Apparently  everybody  doesn t include the 24 million they are taking health care away from.
How does it happen that we have a president who has nothing but nice things to say about Mr. Putin? What do the Russians have on Mr. Trump?
We must never forget. Health care is a human right. All people are entitled to coverage.
We should call the Republican health care plan what it really is: a massive tax break for those who are the wealthiest in America.
Let us never forget that in 2008, Wall Street s greed, recklessness and illegal behavior nearly destroyed our economy
When Wall Street talks, Congress listens. When working class kids talk about being saddled with horrendous debts, who is listening to them?
We re the richest nation in history. And yet 1 in 4 Americans have to choose between medicine or other necessities like food.
Some politicians still refuse to recognize the reality of climate change. It s 2017. That s a disgrace.
Our job is to stand together and say: we don t need to give tax breaks to billionaires. We need to invest in working people.
Being involved in politics is not just about elections. It is fighting for racial, social, economic and environmental justice every day.
We are living in a nation which worships wealth rather than caring for the poor. I don't think that is the nation we should be living in.
The great political and democratic crisis we now face is not voter fraud. It is voter suppression.
Amidst Trump s antics we must not lose sight of a progressive agenda focused on racial, social, environmental and economic justice.
Here s a radical idea. Let s make our economy work for all of us, not just the top 1%.
We must guarantee health care as a right. People who can t afford care deserve to live as much as those who can.
The GOP alternative to Obamacare is grotesque and ugly. You don't throw 24 million people off health care and call it health care reform.
The women of this country have the right to control their own bodies and get the health care they choose. No cuts to Planned Parenthood.
Our job is to provide health care for all people as a human right, not throw 24 million Americans off the health insurance that they have.
If Donald Trump and Paul Ryan s health care  plan is adopted, thousands of Americans will die. This bill is a disgrace.
The wealthy don't deserve health care more than anyone else. Everyone should be guaranteed health care regardless of their income.
I've been criticized for this point, so allow me to repeat it: health care is a human right of all people, not a privilege.
Remember: the U.S. is the only major country on earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people. That's what we have to do.
We spend far, far more per capita for our very dysfunctional health care system. Republicans want to make that worse.
The Republican substitute for Obamacare is not really health care legislation. Its primary purpose is to provide tax breaks to the rich.
Trump s Muslim ban isn t about keeping us safe. A president intent on keeping us safe wouldn't give ideological ammunition to terrorists.
Let s call Trump's travel ban what it is: A racist and anti-Islamic attempt to divide us up.
I am proud to stand with everyone today who is fighting for dignity on the job and the right to join a union at Nissan.
We need a Justice Department that will give us the facts about Russia s ties to the Trump campaign. Jeff Sessions should resign.
If the Republicans in Congress won't do the right thing for workers, we must advance the progressive agenda state by state.
The attacks against transgender people are part of a bigotry which has got to end.
To Republicans I say: Do your job. Listen to your constituents. They do not want Obamacare repealed and to be thrown off their health care.
Americans should not have to pay the highest prices for prescription drugs simply because Congress is bought and paid for by Big Pharma.
The Democratic Party must make clear it will stand up to the 1% and lead in the fight for social, racial, economic and environmental justice
It's imperative Tom understands that the same-old, same-old isn't working and that we must bring in working and young people in a new way.
I congratulate Tom Perez on his election as chairman of the Democratic National Committee and look forward to working with him.
Now is the time for the American people to demand that the Congress listens to them, and not wealthy campaign contributors or lobbyists.
I believe you are entitled to justice and to equal rights, whether you're black, Hispanic, gay or transgender. You are a human being.
One of the great and ongoing struggles of human existence has been the effort to overcome fear of people who are different than we are.
How is it that there are people who have more luxuries than anyone can imagine, while children go hungry or die of preventable diseases?
It is time to understand that health care is a right, not a privilege. It is time to move toward a Medicare-for-all system.
When we talk about fair wages, I hope every man will stand with women and fight for pay equity.
We have virtually no voter fraud in America. What is the fraud is that people are changing laws because of so-called voter fraud.
We will lose our fights for justice when we are divided or apathetic, and the fights we face now are far too important to risk that.
We will not allow Republicans to punish the elderly, children, the sick and the poor, while they reward their billionaire friends.
At a time of grotesque income inequality, the rich do not need more tax breaks and working people do not need cuts to basic needs.
This is no time for despair or giving up. This is a time for organizing, educating and fighting back.
The struggle for our rights is not a one-time event. It must be fought by every generation.
Obamacare isn t perfect. But the solution is not to throw millions off health care without a replacement plan and say,  You're on your own.
When Trump and his friends make delusional statements about voter fraud, they are setting the stage for an increase in voter suppression.
Our job today: strengthen Obamacare and stop the repeal. Tomorrow, we must join the rest of the world and guarantee health care for all.
If you're rich and powerful and commit illegal behavior you get promoted to the president's cabinet. There s something very wrong with that.
Our nation worships wealth rather than caring for the poor. I don t believe that is the nation we should be living in.
It appears Mr. Trump, who attacks media that makes critical remarks about him as  fake news,  doesn't understand what democracy is about.
Republicans claim to represent family values but plan to throw 20 million people off health insurance. That doesn't seem like family values.
25 states and cities raised minimum wages last year. How is that possible? Because millions of people stood up to fight.
Our diversity is our strength. We must take pride in that, not let hatred divide us.
I would hope that Republicans have the courage to stand up to Trump's movement to authoritarianism.
Trump: Want to know what fake news is? Your denial of climate change and the lies spread by fossil fuel companies to protect their profits.
Instead of draining the swamp, Trump is filling it up with the same old Wall Street insiders, whose greed nearly destroyed our economy.
Talk about cowardice. Republicans are trying to ram through Pruitt's confirmation before the American people find out what is in his emails.
We need an EPA administrator whose priority is the safety of people, not the profits of the fossil fuel industry. Pruitt is not that person.
Scientists are virtually unanimous that climate change is real and caused by human activity. Mr. Pruitt refuses to recognize that.
We need a Labor Secretary who will stand up for workers, raising the minimum wage & pay equity for women. Mr. Puzder was not that candidate.
We need to know if President Trump's foreign policy represents the best interests of this country or the best interests of Russia.
Our job: Break up the major financial institutions, not appoint more Wall Street executives to the administration as Trump has done.
Our job is to grow the trade union movement so that workers, white collar and blue collar, can stand up and fight for their rights.
Trump old workers he would stand up for them and stand up to Wall Street. Now, the same old Wall Street insiders are running the show.
What I say to the American people is: stay focused. We will fight for an economy that works for all and doesn t just benefit the wealthy.
We ve got to bring people together around a progressive agenda. They want to raise the minimum wage and make health care a right.
Trump is a total hypocrite. He campaigned saying I'm going to take on Wall Street, and then he hires the president of Goldman Sachs.
When Donald Trump attacks the  media as  fake news  what he is doing is trying to move our country in an authoritarian direction.
Our job is to stand together, vigorously oppose Trump's racist immigration policies and fight for policies that work for working families.
Trump has sent many tweets the last few months. But where's the tweet saying he ll keep his promise to not cut Medicare and Medicaid?
We need an Attorney General who ll defend the Constitution & educate the president about what it means. Jeff Sessions won't be that person.
When I read the same letter as @SenWarren, no one prevented me from speaking. Sen. McConnell owes Sen. Warren an apology. #LetLizSpeak
It is unconscionable that Sen. Mitch McConnell silenced Sen. Elizabeth Warren because she read a letter from Coretta Scott King.
CEOs of drug companies should not be making millions when customers are dying because they cannot afford their medication. #DebateWithBernie
In the midst of massive wealth inequality, @tedcruz doesn't just want to take away health care, he wants to give huge tax breaks to the 1%.
We're having an absurd discussion for the wealthiest nation. We are talking about taking health care away from 30 million people.
A Medicare-for-all system would save us hundreds of billions in health care costs a year. It s financially smart and the moral thing to do.
I ve been criticized for this point, so allow me to repeat it: Yes, health care is a right of all people. #DebateWithBernie
Donald Trump s goal is to protect the interests of the wealthiest and most powerful people in this country. That is exactly what he s doing.
The choice on DeVos is clear. We need to protect children with disabilities, not ignore their needs. #NoOnDeVos
When Republicans say they want to save or strengthen Social Security, what they mean is that they want to cut Social Security benefits.
Donald Trump is a fraud. He said during the campaign he would take on Wall Street and now he's working for Wall Street.
I want a Supreme Court that will stand up for civil liberties, constitutional rights, workers' rights, environmental rights, women's rights.
We are a democracy, not a one-man show. We are not another Trump enterprise.
Friday's order by a federal judge in Seattle blocking President Trump's immigration ban was a victory for rule of law and the Constitution.
Is there not one more Republican senator who will stand with the American people against Betsy DeVos?
President Trump's ban on immigrants from seven majority-Muslim countries is un-American, unconstitutional and will not make us more safe.
The American people are settling in for a long and sustained fight to defend democracy and the values which have made us a great county.
We believe in a nation based on economic, social, racial and environmental justice and we've just begun to fight back.
We should be looking for guidance now not from pollsters and political consultants, but from leaders like Martin Luther King, Jr.
Given Trump's dangerous and unconstitutional actions, the Democratic Party can no longer do politics as usual.
Putting Steve Bannon, an extreme right-wing operative, on the National Security Council is dangerous and he should be removed.
We say to @realDonaldTrump: Rescind the Muslim ban!
The American people want real change, a change based on compassion and justice, not hatred, intolerance and divisiveness.
Republicans say they want to get government off people's backs, except, of course, if you are a woman who wants to control her own body.
We're the only major country that doesn't guarantee health care for all as a right. Yet, we also spend far more per capita on health care.
We need a qualified and knowledgable Education Secretary, not a billionaire who contributed hundreds of millions to right-wing Republicans.
Congress and the American people must defend American values. No torture!
The great political and democratic crisis we now face is not voter fraud. It doesn t exist. It is voter suppression.
President Trump said the other day that 3 to 5 million people voted illegally in the election. That s delusional, an alternative fact.
Thank you @lsarsour for helping to organize the march and build a progressive movement. When we stand together, we win. #IMarchwithLinda
We must be vigorous in fighting terrorism, but we can do it in a way that is constitutional and respects our freedom and privacy rights.
It d be funny if it wasn't so absurd: Trump, a billionaire, surrounded at his inauguration by billionaires, says he's anti-establishment.
If Mr. Trump is serious about standing up for working families, he won't throw 20 million working people off of health insurance.
The simple truth is that we ll never have the health care system we need if private insurance companies and drug companies run the show.
President Trump: Women aren t going back to second-class citizenship. They are going forward. We are all in this together.
We won't achieve our goals if we treat democracy as a spectator sport, hoping others will do it. They won t. The future is in our hands.
We must vigorously defend DACA and the young people in that program and fight for immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
Our response to Mr. Trump's inauguration has to be to fight back for economic, social, environmental & racial justice. We're not giving up!
There should be no disagreement that the First Family represented us with extraordinary dignity, grace and civility over the last 8 years.
If Republicans think they're simply going to throw millions off of health insurance, they ve got another thing coming.
Let us not forget where Dr. King was when he was assassinated. He was standing up with exploited workers in Memphis, Tennessee. #MLKDay
We know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.    MLK
This is the wealthiest country in history. It's time we got our national priorities right and guarantee health care. #OurFirstStand
Health care should not be a privilege for the wealthy. Health care is a human right. Today we defend that right. #OurFirstStand
Republicans in Congress need to worry about millions of people who are standing up and fighting back to defend health care. #OurFirstStand
We are saying to our Republican colleagues: we will not let you throw up to 30 million Americans off of health insurance. #OurFirstStand
Our job today is defend the Affordable Care Act. Our job tomorrow is to create a single-payer system. #OurFirstStand
From Hawai'i to Maine, thousands of people say to Republicans today: You won't get away with dismantling our health care. #OurFirstStand
We will not stand by and watch our health care be dismantled. Now is the time to fight back. #OurFirstStand
Real change doesn't come from the top down. Real change comes from thousands of people demanding it. #OurFirstStand
There are many important fights ahead of us. Today is #OurFirstStand: save health care.
Literally, there are thousands of people who die every single year because they cannot afford the medicine they need. That s outrageous.
We must never forget. Health care is a human right. All people are entitled to coverage.
We will not allow Republicans to punish the elderly, children, the sick and the poor, while they reward their billionaire friends.
There is something profoundly wrong when one family owns more wealth than the bottom 130 million Americans.
While we attack grotesque levels of income inequality in this country, we must simultaneously address the structural racism so many endure.
When folks stand together against a rigged system, they can forge a politics that can transform a city, a nation, and maybe the world.
We cannot stay silent and watch the GOP dismantle the health care system and jeopardize the economic security of millions of Americans.
Some politicians still refuse to recognize the reality of climate change. It's 2017. That's a disgrace.
It's simple, really: Politicians should be working for their constituents' votes, not lobbyists' money. That's not radical. It's democracy.
Are we comfortable as a nation to see a huge increase in millionaires and billionaires but have more people living in poverty than ever?
After all the progress we've made on women s rights, we can't go back to the days when women didn't have the right to control their bodies.
The right wing in this country is waging a war against women, but let me be very clear: This is not a war we are going to allow them to win.
New tax breaks for the rich and big corporations may be popular in country clubs, but it's way out of touch with what most Americans want.
We must join every other major country & guarantee health care for all, not throw millions of women off excellent health care. #StandWithPP
We should not be debating whether to take health care away from 30 million people. We should be working to make health care a right for all.
You don t throw 30 millions people off health care without having a plan to provide health care to those people.
We can't stay silent and watch Republicans dismantle our health care system and jeopardize the economic security of millions of Americans.
Our message to Mr. Trump is simple: We are not going backwards. You will not divide us up by race, nationality, gender or sexual orientation
In the year 2017, we should be encouraging our people to get the best education they can, not punishing them with a mountain of debt.
If we are serious about having the best-educated workforce in the world, we have got to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
It is unconscionable that millions of people in the world s richest country are one diagnosis or car accident away from financial disaster.
We will lose our fights for justice when we are divided or apathetic, and the fights coming this year are far too important to risk that.
Congress has got to protect and expand the health care needs of working families, not cut them.
Stopping the Republican assault on the working class will require the active participation of millions of Americans in every community.
The struggle for our rights is not a one-time event. It must be fought by every generation.
We've seen the surefire route to success in politics has been to manipulate people's fear and ignorance. We can and will change that.
We are living in a nation which worships wealth rather than caring for the poor. I don't think that is the nation we should be living in.
Working people are angry and they have a right to be angry. This economy isn t for them it s for the extremely wealthy.
Republicans are not going to get away with punishing the poor while rewarding their billionaire friends.
When we fight we re fighting for the future the future of the planet in terms of climate change, and for the future of American democracy.
Happy New Year! Never forget greed is powerful but our vision of a world based on economic, social & environmental justice is more powerful.
Fossil fuel companies are willing to destroy the planet for short-term profits. That is just incomprehensible. Incomprehensible.
The pharmaceutical industry is the most profitable industry in the country. That should not be the case when people s lives are at stake.
Republicans claim to represent family values but plan to throw 30 million people off health insurance. That doesn't seem like family values.
Cities and towns and states have stepped up and raised the minimum wage to $15. It s about time that Congress does the same for all workers.
You cannot be a party which takes money from Wall Street and then tells working families you are on their side. People see through that.
The U.S. shouldn t discourage kids who want to go to college with massive costs. We should be educating as many people as we possibly can.
Our goal must be to improve the VA, not destroy it. We will vigorously oppose any and all efforts to privatize the VA.
While other nations are guaranteeing health care as a right, we spend more on our military than the next seven nations combined.
I wish elected officials would spend less time making it harder for people to vote and more time fighting for the working class.
Members of Congress spend way too much time in pursuit of money and too little time actually debating the issues.
Here's a radical idea.  Let's create an economy that works for the bottom 99%, not just the people on top.
My nightmare is our grandchildren wondering why we did not leave them a planet that is habitable.
25 states and cities raised minimum wages this year. How is that possible? Because millions of people stood up to fight.
It doesn't make sense to trust billionaires to fight for the working class. The billionaire agenda is not the agenda of the American people.
If we claim to be the greatest nation on Earth, then we've got to catch up to other major countries and guarantee health care for all.
The EPA needs a leader who will actually protect the environment, not a climate denier like Trump's choice Scott Pruitt.
We have accomplished too much as a country to see our progress washed away by leaders who are fearful, hateful and misinformed.
It really is frightening when you have a party controlling the House, Senate and presidency and saying You know what? We reject science.
One of the most revolting aspects of the student loan crisis is that the government makes billions in profits off of student loans.
A $15 minimum wage was very recently considered too radical. But when people see the justice of an idea, it catches fire very quickly.
It's an international embarrassment that we imprison more people than any other country on earth.
People should not have to choose between medicine and groceries. And yet the greed of the drug industry makes that happen every day.
People who want to limit carbon emissions:   Majority of Democrats   Majority of Republicans   Trump's choice for EPA head
Our priority now is to transform our energy system to renewables, not empower fossil fuel CEOs like Mr. Trump is doing.
Mr. Trump and his friends should know there are millions of people who will not stand for their greed at the expense of the working class.
While tens of millions of children around the world go hungry and uneducated, a handful of billionaires divide up the riches of the planet.
Democrats must start playing ball in states that we have conceded decades ago, where people are now being left out of the political process.
The women of this country have the right to control their own bodies, not politicians.
For decades, Republicans and Democrats have understood that the goal must be to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, not expand them.
We must stand with our brothers and sisters in NC who despite the GOP power grab are bravely fighting for economic, racial & social justice.
My parents' dream was that if they worked hard as parents, they'd see their kids go to college. We must keep that promise to every family.
Are we comfortable to see a huge increase in millionaires and billionaires but have more people living in poverty than ever? I know I'm not.
The ruling class likes to believe this country belongs to them. There are millions of us who would say otherwise.
If we want to get tough on crime, let us deal with the causes of crime instead of using taxpayer money to incarcerate millions of people.
If Mr. Trump tries to pursue discriminatory policies, he should remember that a majority of voters did not support him and his bigotry.
We are rapidly moving toward a nation of the super-rich, by the super-rich and for the super-rich.
Believing in climate change is not optional at this point. Neither is taking action to save the planet.
Garnishing social security benefits to pay off student debt is a clear example of why we need fundamental changes in our national priorities
It is beyond absurd that so many bright young people are unable to attend college because of the cost.
We are moving toward an oligarchic form of society, and it will take all of us to fight against it.
Clinton received almost 3 million more votes, but Trump will be the next president. It's clear the electoral college needs to be changed.
Lowering prices on prescription drugs that is, making sure that people can afford to live should not be a partisan issue.
Every person in this country deserves a decent opportunity and a decent standard of living. Until that happens we will not truly be free.
It would be nice to put off worrying about climate change for a few decades. But the truth is we have no choice but to act now.
We are living in a nation which worships wealth rather than caring for the poor. I don't think that is the nation we should be living in.
The wealthy have seen their incomes rise immensely in the last 30 years. It is not class warfare to say they don't need another tax break.
Money and wealth should serve the people. The people should not have to serve money and wealth.
There is something profoundly wrong when one family owns more wealth than the bottom 130 million Americans.
Cuts to life and death programs like Medicare and massive tax breaks for the wealthy that's not what America is supposed to be about.
Even though the same proportion of blacks and whites use marijuana, a black person is almost 4x more likely to be arrested for possession.
Walmart costs taxpayers $6.2 billion every year in public assistance programs by not paying their workers a living wage. That is insane.
Congress must begin listening to the majority of Americans who do not want cuts to Medicaid and Medicare.
Our job is to grow the union movement so that anyone working 40 hours a week, whether it s in a factory or a hotel, doesn't live in poverty.
A small subsection of the one percent are hell-bent on doing everything in their power to block action against climate change.
Young people in this country should be in good schools and at good jobs, not in jail cells.
There is hatred being generated against immigrants in this country. We've got to stand together and reject that hate.
Real change in this country is not going to come from Capitol Hill. It`s going to come from grassroots America.
As a result of bad trade agreements like NAFTA, we have lost over 4 million decent paying manufacturing jobs.
This is the wealthiest country in the history of the world. Our job: abolish poverty, not let 130,000 people die every year because of it.
Men in the wealthiest counties in this country live 18 years longer than men in the poorest counties.
Poverty in America is a death sentence. Wealthy women live 12 years longer than lower income women.
If current trends continue, one in four black males born today can expect to spend time in prison. This is an outrage.
We must end the war on drugs, which has destroyed lives and disproportionately impacted people of color.
Instead of frightening 11 million undocumented people with deportation, we need comprehensive immigration reform and a path to citizenship.
We must end private prisons and detention centers in the U.S. The time is long overdue for real criminal justice reform.
Cities and towns and states have raised the minimum wage to $15. It s time that Congress steps up to give all people a living wage.
I don t know how many times I have to say it, but I ll keep saying it until it happens: all people should have a right to health care.
Maybe, just maybe, we want to pass legislation to make the wealthy start paying their fair share in taxes before we start slashing Medicare.
Does @realDonaldTrump have the guts to stand up to House Republicans who want to slash Social Security?
Millions of seniors, disabled vets and people with disabilities can't get by on $11,000 or less. We must expand Social Security, not cut it.
Donald Trump is a pathological liar.  We need the help of the American people to build a movement of millions who are following reality.
Everyone who voted for Trump, who thought he'd defend working people, pay attention to the reality of what he's doing not just his rhetoric.
Trump's choice to lead EPA doesn't just deny climate change, he's worked with oil & gas companies to make us more dependent on fossil fuels.
$10.10 isn't good enough. $12 isn't good enough. We won't rest until every worker is paid at least $15 an hour and can form a union.
The top 10 pharmaceutical executives received over $327 million last year, while 1 in 5 Americans can't afford to fill their prescriptions.
Hundreds of thousands of seniors are forced to cut their pills in half because the medicine they need is too expensive.
Trump s reactionary agenda won't be defeated in Congress. It will be defeated when millions of Americans come together to oppose xenophobia.
Our job now is to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels, not to produce more greenhouse gas emissions.
In the year 2016, we should not continue to trample on Native American sovereignty or become more dependent on fossil fuel.
I appreciate @POTUS listening to the Native Americans and millions of others who believe the Dakota Access Pipeline shouldn't be built.
Trump attacked Wall Street on the campaign. Now he nominates a former Goldman Sachs executive to be Treasury secretary. What hypocrisy!
America remains the only major country not to guarantee health care for all. The Republican response: throw millions off health insurance.
Trump's focus should not be a few people who might burn the American flag. It should be on working families and combatting climate change.
If Trump is serious about helping the middle class, we ll work with him. So far, it s clear he doesn t give a damn about working families.
Donald Trump wants to treat corporate greed with kid gloves. If he won t stand up for America s working class, we must.
Carrier gets millions in tax breaks. Indiana loses thousands of jobs. United Technologies took Trump hostage and won.
  Banks' record-breaking profits    Household income since 1999   Our fight: create an economy that works for all, not just the 1%.
With Steve Mnunchin, Donald Trump is catering to the same Wall Street executives that have hurt working families time and again.
I stand with the workers across the country who are demanding $15 an hour and a union. Keep fighting, sisters and brothers. #FightFor15
For many Republicans leaders, democracy means billionaires buying elections and poor and working people being disenfranchised.
Republicans want billionaires to be able to contribute directly to the candidate and make the candidate an employee of wealthy contributors.
We need an infrastructure plan that creates millions of jobs and makes corporations pay their fair share, not another corporate giveaway.
At a time of massive inequality, when the rich get richer and most other people get poorer, we're going to stand with working families.
We need to send a very loud and very clear message to corporate America: the era of outsourcing is over.
United Technologies made $7 billion in profits last year but want to outsource 2,100 American union jobs to Mexico. Not acceptable.
We have to bring people together around the progressive agenda and make government work for all of us and not the 1%.
Our party is not about having fancy fundraisers, it s about going into union halls, veterans  halls, farm communities, the inner cities.
The Democratic party has got to say we are on the side of the 99%.
No employer should be allowed to deny overtime pay to Americans, by labeling workers earning as little as $24,000-a-year as supervisors.
We are not going to give up. We are going to fight back and mobilize.
There is no working with a president who will bring forth programs based on bigotry, racism, sexism, homophobia, or xenophobia.
I think politicians and the media often underestimate the intelligence of Americans and their desire to learn about what's going on.
Campaigns should not be about candidates; they should be about the needs of the people.
We say to President Obama, in any and every way that you can, stop the Dakota Access Pipeline and keep the water protectors safe. #NoDAPL
Democracy is not a spectator sport. Don't look around and say, Why isn't he doing it, why isn't she doing it? Get involved yourself.
We are motivated by love unlike some who are motivated by hatred.
People have got to know that the Democratic Party has the guts to stand up to powerful people whose greed is destroying the middle class.
There s incredible energy among young people in America. If we have a progressive agenda that thinks big not small, we can tap into that.
When Trump is racist, sexist, homophobic and Islamophobic, we re going to vigorously oppose him.
Donald Trump's appointment of a racist individual like Steve Bannon is totally unacceptable. It must be rescinded.
We must focus on grassroots America. The leadership will do what the American people want it to do when the American people stand up.
I will be damned if we re going to go backwards and try to divide up this country again.
We have got to rally millions of people to stand together, to say, We are not going to deport millions of Latinos from this country.
The Democratic Party can no longer be led by the liberal elite. We have to stand up to Wall Street and the greed of corporate America.
The Democratic Party has to stand with working people, feel their pain and take on the billionaire class, Wall Street and drug companies.
I come from the white working class, and I am deeply humiliated that the Democratic Party cannot talk to the people where I came from.
Mr. Trump, you talked about being the champion of working families. Now produce. But we won't accept racism, sexism or xenophobia.
Democrats have focused too much on raising incredible sums of money from wealthy people, and have largely ignored working families.
The Democratic Party has got to say to working people, we are on your side. We are going to take on Wall Street. We won't take their money.
The Democratic Party needs to look in the mirror and work tirelessly to become once again the party that working people know works for them.
You can't be a party which on one hand says we're in favor of working people but we don't have the courage to take on Wall Street.
It would be unacceptable for Trump to turn people's anger against the poor, people of color & Muslims. That's demagoguery of the worst kind.
#ImVotingBecause Hillary Clinton will nominate justices who will overturn Citizens United and take back our democracy from billionaires.
#ImVotingBecause we need a president who will bring our nation together, not someone who will divide us by race or religion.
#ImVotingBecause it's time to tell Donald Trump, the billionaire class and huge corporations that they are going to pay their fair share.
#ImVotingBecause the future of the planet is at stake. Hillary Clinton will combat climate change. Donald Trump thinks it's a hoax.
#ImVotingBecause we cannot allow Donald Trump, who has made bigotry the cornerstone of his campaign, to divide us up.
The American people are tired of not being able to afford the medicine they need while the drug industry makes huge profits. #YesOn61
We re going to demand that  Donald Trump and his billionaire friends, corporate America and Wall Street start paying their fair share.
Diversity makes us strong and we should be proud of that. @HillaryClinton understands that. Donald Trump clearly does not.
Young people can change the world by exercising their democratic rights: vote and stand up for social, economic and environmental justice.
Donald Trump is proud of his assaults on women and makes fun of people with disabilities. That is not someone who should be president.
Not only do we have to defeat Donald Trump, I say @BaztaArpaio!
Please understand that the Koch brothers don't just want to cut Medicare and Social Security. They want to eliminate them.
If you sit this election out and Trump wins by a few votes, many people are going to be dealing with that reality for their entire lives.
What upsets me so much is we have struggled for so many years to overcome discrimination and Trump is running his campaign on bigotry.
Our job is to reach out to Trump voters to tell them that we re going to create an economy that works for all of us, not just a few.
Some are, but I think most are people who are hurting, they re worried about their kids, they re working longer hours for lower wages.
I do not believe that most of the people who are thinking about voting for Mr. Trump are racist or sexist.
Republicans want to throw 20 million Americans off health insurance. How many of them will die? Republicans don't have an answer.
There is one candidate running for president who has pledged to raise the minimum wage to a living wage. That is @HillaryClinton.
Too many people have died fighting for our democracy. We are going to defend that democracy and fight off oligarchy.
One of the major differences between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump is that she will do everything to overturn Citizens United.
As we speak billionaires are pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into campaigns. We will not allow billionaires to buy our government.
I say to Republican governors: If you don t have the guts to participate in an open & fair election get out of politics and get another job.
We are not going back to a bigoted society. We re not going to allow Donald Trump or anyone else to divide us up.
How is it that Donald Trump, a multi-billionaire, doesn t think we should raise the minimum wage to a living wage?
Too many people have died fighting for American democracy. Don t let Donald Trump and his friends intimidate you.
Not only is Donald Trump going to lose on November 8th, but next year he's going to start paying his fair share of taxes.
The Koch brothers & their network have spent at least $1.2 million to support Kelly Ayotte because she votes with the Kochs 90% of the time.
Now is the time to take on the greed of the pharmaceutical industry.
Super Pacs have raised $1.1 billion during this campaign cycle   20% of which has come from just 10 billionaire families.
Now is the time for our next president to rally people against Wall Street and corporate greed and stand up for the declining middle class.
There is no rational reason why we remain the only major country not to guarantee health care to all as a right.
There is no moral excuse for the top one-tenth of 1 percent owning as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
Americans are tired of billionaires like Trump and large profitable corporations not paying a nickel in federal income taxes.
If this election has taught us anything, it's that the American people are sick and tired of the economic, political and media status quo.
When we destroy nature, we are ultimately destroying the human beings of this planet. #NoDAPL
All over this country, Native Americans have suffered far too much, and for far too long. They deserve a voice. #NoDAPL
Over and over the government has broken its promise to respect Native American sovereign rights. Now it's time for real change. #NoDAPL
As a result of the disastrous Citizens United decision billionaires are trying to buy elections for candidates who'll represent the wealthy.
If you don t have the guts to run for office on your ideas @realDonaldTrump, then you shouldn t run for office at all.
Vermont can lead the country in transforming our energy system and combating climate change, but we need to elect @SueMinterVT first.
Paul Ryan had no small dollar donors to his campaign in 3 months, but thanks to @SpeakerRyan we raised $2.2 million in 3 days. #ThanksPaul
Make Paul Ryan s nightmare come true:   Elect Democrats to the Senate    Make Bernie a chairman    Enact a progressive agenda.  #ThanksPaul
You know what happens when we take back the Senate, @SpeakerRyan? We continue the political revolution. #ThanksPaul
Paul Ryan said if Republicans lose the Senate, a guy named Bernie Sanders becomes Budget Committee Chair. Sounds like a plan! #ThanksPaul
The administration should kill the Time Warner-AT&T merger. This deal would mean higher prices and fewer choices for the American people.
No laws prevent drug companies from doubling or tripling prices. So they just do it. Look at EpiPens. Mylan jacked up the price 461%.
Donald Trump is the most dangerous candidate to run for president in the modern history of America. Period.
No major U.S. company has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection more than Trump s casino empire in the last 30 years. #debatenight
Where does the steel Trump used to construct his hotels come from? Not Pennsylvania, Ohio or Wisconsin. It came from China. #debatenight
I say to Donald Trump: instead of giving speeches about trade why don't you lead by example and make your goods in America. #debatenight
If Trump was really concerned about companies going abroad, maybe he would make his ties in the United States, not China. #debatenight
Donald Trump s vision for America: tax breaks for billionaires and large corporations, poverty wages for working families. #debatenight
We simply cannot turn back the clock by electing a president whose anti-immigrant rants have slurred Mexicans as rapists and criminals.
We must defend the fundamental right of women to control their own bodies, including a woman s right to have an abortion. #debatenight
Trump s Supreme Court nominees would oppose a woman s right to choose, support Citizens United and gut the Voting Rights Act. #debatenight
Too many young people with a burning desire to get a higher education are unable to do that for one reason: their family lacks the money.
If for no other reason that the future of this planet, which is a pretty big reason, you should be voting for Hillary Clinton.
We are going to create a government that works for the middle class and not Sheldon Adelson, Donald Trump and the billionaires.
We cannot elect a man to be president who objectifies women, who brags about assaulting women.
In our entire history there hasn t been a less qualified person to become president from a character or policy perspective than Trump.
Trump has a  brilliant idea to deport 11 million undocumented people. @HillaryClinton and I believe we need real immigration reform.
We will not accept a candidate who insults our Mexican brothers and sisters, who calls them rapists and criminals.
Gary Johnson:  Any restriction on campaign spending violates the First amendment.  Translation: Billionaires will be free to buy elections.
Our health care system is designed to make huge profits for the drug companies and insurance companies. That s why I support #ColoradoCare.
The health care system isn't designed to keep us healthy, it's designed to make huuuge profits.
We will make public colleges and universities tuition free for all working families in America.
We have some bad news for Donald. Not only is he not going to be president but he is going to start paying his fair share of taxes.
It is the most common sense idea in the world to say, You want an education, of course you're going to get that education.
Our job is to have the highest voter turnout in the world, not one of the lowest.
I say to Donald Trump: instead of giving speeches about trade why don't you lead by example and make your goods in America.
It's amazing that a billionaire like Trump doesn't have the guts to call for an increase in the starvation minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.
Change comes about when we understand that 100 years ago women weren't running for president, they didn't even have the right to vote.
We are not going to allow Donald Trump and other demagogues to divide us up. We will stand together.
On the basic economic issues   trade, minimum wage, climate change, pay equity   Gary Johnson's positions are disastrous.
The Democratic platform is a very progressive document but no president will be able to implement it unless millions of people stand up.
There are a lot of smart people in the U.S. Congress but they don't have the guts to stand up and fight. @PramilaJayapal does!
It's not enough to go back to pre-Citizens United. We need to have public funding of elections.
I have some news for Donald Trump and his friends -- you are going to have to pay your fair share of taxes.
I know this is a radical idea, but we have to inject morality into our political process.
Our job is to tell the pharmaceutical industry that we won't continue to pay by far the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
If we beat the drug industry in California we are going to put them on the defensive and lower the cost of medication across this country.
High drug prices isn t just about people dying, it s about people having to go deeply into debt to get the medication they need.
Drug companies make huge profits and executives get big compensation package, while Americans die because they can't afford their medication
If you want to understand why we pay such high drug prices listen to this: Since 1998 the drug industry has spent $3 billion on lobbying.
While millions of Americans cannot afford the medication they need, last year the 5 major drug corporations made $50 billion in profit.
California's Proposition 61 is a real blow against the greedy pharmaceutical industry that will reverberate all over America.
This is 2016. I can understand school boys in the third grade making stupid remarks, not somebody who s running for president.
When you run for president there has got to be at least a threshold of decency.
Bright, young people cannot get a college education for one reason their families cannot afford it. That is going to change.
Donald Trump's position on climate change is so ludicrous that it really would be funny if the future of the planet were not at stake.
Donald Trump thinks climate change is a hoax. @HillaryClinton understands we must transition to renewable energy. The choice is clear.
I know that @DeborahRossNC would make a fantastic member of the U.S. Senate   one who would stand up for working families no matter what.
Our strength as a nation is in fact our diversity. We can disagree on the issues but we cannot respect a candidate who runs on bigotry.
This campaign isn't a personality contest. We're not voting for high school class president. This is about the survival of the middle class.
It is not a radical idea to suggest that anyone in this country who works 40 to 50 hours per week should not be living in poverty.
The reason that Trump's campaign is particularly dangerous and un-American is that he's named the cornerstone of his campaign bigotry
I say to cowardly Republican governors trying to suppress the vote: If you can t stand on your ideas, you should get out of politics.
As a father and grandfather I worry every day that this country is moving closer and closer to an oligarchic form of society.
We've got a message for Mr. Trump & the billionaires: @HillaryClinton is gonna get elected & they're going to start paying their fair share.
Billionaires in America   they own the system. Why do they have to pay taxes when they can get you to pay taxes?
Trump, a multi-billionaire, does not pay a nickel in federal income taxes. And he's proud of that! He thinks he can stiff the middle class.
Donald Trump hurls insults at women that I can't even repeat. @janeosanders would kill me.
We are not going to let Donald Trump and right-wing Republicans destroy the American labor movement.
The days of racism, sexism, homophobia, I want to see those days behind us. I don't want to see a president who will continue that ugliness.
I cannot wait to have @russfeingold back by my side in the United States Senate.
Last year, the 5 largest drug companies made $50 billion in profit. Meanwhile, 1 in 5 Americans can't afford to fill their prescriptions.
Donald Trump has a  brilliant  idea. Throw 20 million Americans off health insurance. How many of those people do you think will die?
How many scientists, engineers and teachers aren't getting an education because their families lack the income to pay for college?
In America, finally, we will make public colleges and universities tuition free for the middle class. That is a big deal.
Donald Trump thinks that only the middle class and working families should pay their fair share in taxes. Well, I disagree.
I don't want to live in a country where seniors are trying to live on $10,000 a year, where we have veterans sleeping out on the streets.
Real change never takes place from the top down. It always comes from the bottom on up.
I believe Americans who care about our country, our kids and our veterans understand that we must pay our taxes   even the billionaires.
Day after day Donald Trump insults women and veterans and Mexicans. We need a president that brings us together not divides us up.
You cannot have sane public policy if you reject science which is precisely what Donald Trump and other Republicans are doing.
Our job is to elect @HillaryClinton and to understand that on the day after we are not finished. We must continue the movement.
I find it incomprehensible that Trump talks about trade at the same time that he makes his products in low-wage countries around the world.
If you look at which candidate has the ideas to protect working families, the answer is clear: @HillaryClinton
It is insane for millions of our young people to leave school with thousands of dollars in debt and to be paying it for years.
We've got children sleeping on the street. The Walton family of Walmart does not need a $53 billion tax break.
Let me congratulate Minnesota for sending @keithellison to the United States Congress. He s a leader on issue after issue.
Hillary understands climate change is real and creating devastating problems. Trump believes we should expand fossil fuel production.
Trump has been called  a race-baiting, xenophobic, religious bigot.  That s not me talking. That s Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham.
We cannot turn back the clock by electing a president whose birther conspiracy was a racist attack on our first African-American president.
The job of the next president is to bring us together, not divide us up. Sadly, Trump has made bigotry the cornerstone of his campaign.
How can Trump, with a straight face, object to outsourcing while his own company exploits workers around the world to make his products?
Trump talks a lot about our trade policies and outsourcing American jobs but his own clothing line is made in Bangladesh, Mexico and China.
It's beyond belief that any serious candidate would support huge tax breaks for the top 1% while cutting services to working families.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality, we must not elect a president who wants to resurrect failed trickle-down economics.
Middle class families pay their taxes. But billionaires like Mr. Trump don't have to thanks to their friends in Congress.
In the year 2016, we can no longer tolerate sexism. Trump really doesn t get it.
When Republicans say it's OK to give billions in tax breaks to the top 1%, don't tell me we can't afford to make public college available.
The plan @HillaryClinton and I worked on says: if your kid studies hard and does well, regardless of income, your kid can go to college.
This election is enormously important for the future of this country. It is imperative that we elect @HillaryClinton as our next president.
At a time when we have massive income inequality, it is disgraceful for Trump and his friends to talk about tax breaks for the 1 percent.
I want young people to leave school excited about the future, not being saddled with tens of thousands of dollars in student debt.
When we talk about public education it is no longer enough to talk about grades 1-12. We must talk about making college tuition free.
What Trump is trying to do is pretend that he s some kind of champion of working people. How hypocritical can you be?
It is absurd that Republicans would rather shut down the government than ensure families in Flint have clean drinking water.
Republicans are refusing to help people in Flint get clean drinking water. I visited Flint last winter. What I heard was devastating.
We need automatic voter registration, so that students and working people can make their voices heard. #NationalVoterRegistrationDay
Trump wants more tax breaks for billionaires, won't raise the min. wage & denies climate change. This isn't someone who should be president.
Millions of young people are leaving school deeply in debt, impacting their future. Does Trump have anything to say about that? #debatenight
NBC has documented at least 117 times Trump has switched positions on immigration to guns to abortion since he announced he was running.
The difficulty of discussions with Donald Trump is that he lies all the time. That's not my view. That's the view of media that covers him.
Speaking of generals, four-star General Colin Powell referred to Trump as  a national disgrace  and an  international pariah.  #debatenight
This is crazy. After trying to delegitimize Obama's presidency now Trump says he did the country a favor. #debatenight
How dare Trump express concerns about African Americans when his birther efforts attempted to delegitimize @POTUS. What a hypocrite!
I don't often agree with @MittRomney but he's right: Trump is a fraud and a phony. #DebateWithBernie
Absolutely disgraceful! #debates
One of the great disgraces of Trump's behavior has been his leadersip in the birther movement - a racist effort. #DebateWithBernie
The US has more people in jail than any country. 2.2 million people. This is a disgrace. We need real criminal justice reform. #debates
Oh yeah, Trump will stand up for working people. 7 of his 13 top economic aids are Wall Street bankers. Just what the country needs more of.
Many of these lawsuits were filed by working class americans who worked for Trump and never got paid.
I don't know if it's a world record but Donald Trump has been sued more than 3,500 times over the past 30 years. #DebateWithBernie
Trump's proposals wouldn't just give huge tax breaks to billionaires they'd cut pell grants to make college affordable by $28 billion.
The Walton family of Walmart would get a $53 billion tax break if the estate tax is repealed, which is what Trump wants. #DebateWithBernie
Trump s tax plan includes eliminating the estate tax which provides a $353 billion tax break to the top .3% & $4 billion to his own family.
Here is Trump's tax proposal: $3 trillion in tax cuts to millionaires. Exactly the wrong policy at exactly the wrong time. #debates
If Trump is concerned about companies going abroad maybe he should move his plants out of Bangladesh where workers are paid 30 cents an hour
Glad Trump is concerned about manufacturing jobs going abroad. He might want to start making his clothing in the US not low-wage countries.
I hope Trump tells us what happens to the 20 million he would throw off health insurance. How many will die or become much sicker? #debates
I hope Trump tells us tonight why despite all the scientific evidence he thinks climate change is a hoax.  #DebateWithBernie
I hope Trump tells us tonight why, amidst huge inequality, he thinks we should give huge tax breaks to billionaires. #DebateWithBernie
What we have to do is focus on the issues, not see tonight as an entertainment show. #debatetonight
Younger people, more than any other generation, are sick and tired of discrimination and racism.
Given the crises we face - income inequality, climate change, student debt - this moment in history is not the time for a protest vote.
Democracy is not about cowardly Republican governors trying to suppress the vote. But all over this country that is what we are seeing.
Today's aristocracy is an American billionaire class that has unprecedented economic and political influence over our lives.
A progressive estate tax on the wealthiest 0.2% of Americans is the fairest way to reduce wealth inequality and invest in working families.
In America today we have a grotesque level of wealth & income inequality in which the top 0.1% owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
What would a Donald Trump presidency mean for the people of this country? I think it would be an absolute disaster, beyond a disaster.
One thing I am proud of is that there's a lot more support for the concept of democratic socialism today than there was before the campaign.
When @HillaryClinton says she s going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free, you know what? That's a very big deal.
Whether we boldly address the crisis of climate change or make a bad situation worse, depends on the outcome of this election.
It is crazy that we have veterans sleeping out on the streets, who risked their lives to defend us.
You don't run a campaign, as Donald Trump has done, based on bigotry - trying to divide us up, scapegoating Muslims, Mexicans and others.
.1 percent of Americans own 90 percent of the wealth. But Donald Trump wants to give more tax breaks to the top 1 percent.
This is the wealthiest country in the world, yet children have been poisoned by lead in the water because of crumbling infrastructure.
I happen to believe, and @HillaryClinton happens to believe, that if you work 40 hours a week you should not be living in poverty.
When your friends say they won't vote, ask how much student debt they have. There's only one candidate who will make college affordable.
When we talk about public education it's no longer good enough to talk about 1st-12th grade. We must talk about making college tuition free.
In the year 2016, we cannot accept bigotry as the cornerstone of any campaign for president of the United States.
Donald Trump was a leader in the Birther Movement, which tried to delegitimize President Obama. That is nothing less than racism.
What is Donald Trump's position on climate change? He thinks it's a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. That is insane.
I very rarely quote @MittRomney but he hit the nail on the head when he said Donald Trump is a  fraud  and a  phony.
Donald Trump isn t going to stand with working people. He's a billionaire who calls for massive tax breaks for the 1 percent.
We cannot allow ourselves to be divided by the bigoted, xenophobic hysteria the Republican party has concocted.
I applaud the broad coalition that has organized a national day of action to ensure Congress #StopTPP
Corporate-backed trade agreements like TPP have significantly contributed to the race to the bottom and the collapse of our middle class.
Our message to young people must be clear: You will not be punished for growing up poor. If you work hard, you will get to go to college.
We need to come together to prevent hatred and create the kind of nation based on love that we all know we can become.
Our job is to not allow politicians to divide us up by where our family came from, our skin color, our religion or sexual orientation.
It can seem easy to turn our backs on the vulnerable, but I believe what human life is about is everyone has an impact on everyone else.
I remember when the same folks who now back TPP told us how many jobs would be created by NAFTA. They were wrong then and they're wrong now.
The government must start listening to Native American voices, and stop treating them as third class citizens.
Time and time again the government has broken its solemn promise to respect Native American sovereign rights. Now it's time for real change.
It is abhorrent that pro-TPP politicians are taking the side of corporate America over groups that represent workers and the environment.
Two-thirds of Americans want to eliminate the offshore tax haven loophole. It's time for Congress to stand with them, not big corporations.
Most major nations negotiate with drug companies on their citizens' behalf to keep costs down. Our government should be able to do the same.
The future of prescription costs in America comes down to this: Do we have the guts to stand up to drug companies who are ripping us off?
Billionaires like the Kochs spend millions to elect anti-union officials because they know when unions suffer, all workers' wages go down.
Unions are my family. Standing with workers on picket lines is something I've done my entire life-- that's what I do and what I believe.
Social Security, Medicare and workplace safety are just a few of the benefits we now enjoy thanks to the the struggle of unions. #LaborDay
I have stood with unions all of my life and I will continue to do so in fighting the disastrous TPP.
If we are serious about getting big money out of politics and restoring our democracy, we must move toward public funding of campaigns.
When the vote of the poor and minorities is suppressed, it becomes that much easier for the ruling class to further rig the system.
Considering the planetary crisis we face, it is completely inappropriate to continue giving billions in tax breaks to fossil fuel companies.
We must not allow Puerto Rico s budget to be balanced on the backs of the most vulnerable people   working families, children and the poor.
Disappointing to hear that Puerto Rico's fiscal control board will include some of the architects of the crisis on the island. #PROMESA
The best way to effectively and rapidly create meaningful jobs is to rebuild this nation's infrastructure.
Huge corporations can t be allowed to use loopholes and tax havens to boost their obscene profits even higher. I applaud the EU s decision.
I haven't seen a single major Wall Street executive be prosecuted for causing the near collapse of our entire economy.
Why is it that kids are jailed for possessing marijuana but nothing happens to Wall Street execs whose illegal behavior harmed millions?
We need rational immigration policies in America that offer a pathway to citizenship. We shouldn't be promoting divisiveness.
This type of greed is shameful, and if Mylan thinks the American people are going to accept this so-called compromise, they are mistaken.
Mylan recently announced a generic version for $300. That's still five times as expensive as it was in 2007: a 526% increase in total.
The obscene greed of Wall Street and corporate America is slowly destroying the fabric of this nation. We must stop them.
They stood together against oppression, injustice and racism in America. We must never lose sight of that vision. Our work is far from over.
53 years ago today, Martin Luther King delivered his famous I Have a Dream speech in front of hundreds of thousands of protesters.
Politics isn t a soap opera. We need to focus on the real issues affecting Americans all across the country.
One of the goals should be demanding pay equity for women workers, and I hope men everywhere will fight for that, too. #WomensEqualityDay
But the struggle is far from over. We must always build upon our progress, and continue the fight for women s rights. #WomensEqualityDay
That milestone is what political revolutions are all about. Millions of people standing up and fighting for a fair shake. #WomensEqualityDay
96 years ago today, women fought for the right to vote, and they won. #WomensEqualityDay
It is absurd that America is still the only major country on earth that does not guarantee healthcare as a right to all its people.
The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and the people of North Dakota have shown the importance of standing together against injustice. #NoDAPL
We all owe the @NatlParkService a great deal of gratitude for the work they do in preserving America s park system. #NPS100
Tonight, I want to introduce you to Our Revolution   made up of thousands of people who will be fighting at the grassroots level for change.
Uruguay is being sued by Phillip-Morris because it waged a campaign to keep its children from smoking and developing cancer. #StopTheTPP
Despite the gains of the Affordable Care Act, 28 million Americans remain uninsured and 38 million are underinsured. We need #MedicareForAll
I was proud that our campaign was the first campaign to call for an end to private prisons and detention centers.
54 percent of Republicans now understand that people earning more than $250,000 should be asked to pay more in taxes. #OurRevolution
One of the things we accomplished is helping write the strongest and most progressive Democratic platform in the history of the country.
That s the kind of process I will always fight for and what I believe in from the bottom of my heart. We must demand change.
As I have said a million times, real change always takes place from the bottom on up, not the top on down. #OurRevolution
There is nothing that is more important than passing on a Mother Earth that is healthy and habitable for our kids and grandchildren.
We can create a nation in which all people who want to pursue higher education can do that regardless of their income.
We can create a nation where 20% of our kids are not living in poverty.
We must provide legal status to the undocumented. We need comprehensive immigration reform, and we need a path towards citizenship.
Donald Trump and his friends should realize that their bigotry is the past, not the future.
What a great nation is about is doing everything that we can to resolve international conflict without a war.
People should not have to go without the medication they need because Congress does not have the courage to stand up to Big Pharma.
America should join Germany, Denmark, Mexico and other countries in providing tuition-free public college.
I don t think that corporations should be making a profit by seeing more and more people go into jail.
I want to see our country have one of the highest voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest.
Today we have cities across America who have made their minimum wage $15 an hour. I m going to do my best to make that nationally.
Change takes place when people by the millions determine that the status quo is not the world that should be.
This is a rigged economy   heads they win, tails you lose. We are going to change that economy.
There are over 11 million undocumented people in this country. We cannot turn our backs on them.
To my Republican colleagues: If you don t have the guts to defend your ideas in a free election, get another job.
We must fight voter suppression in all forms. If you are 18 years of age, you should be automatically registered to vote.
In my view, when the largest banks are larger than they were when we bailed them out, we have to break them up. #BreakEmUp
In the richest country in the history of the world, seniors should not be choosing between food and medicine.
Last place is no place for America. We must join the rest of the world and ensure workers access to paid family, sick and vacation leave.
Private prisons are not cheaper, they are not safer, and they do not provide better outcomes for either the prisoners or the state.
The DOJ's plan to end its use of private prisons is an important step in the right direction. It's exactly what our movement has fought for.
Let s be clear: in terms of real family values, in many respects, we lag behind virtually every other major country on earth.
When Republicans talk about  family values  what they usually mean is opposition to a women's right to choose and opposition to gay rights.
Republicans want to end Medicare and transform it into a voucher system that gives a cancer patient $8,000 and says: Good luck to you.
The United States remains the only major country on Earth that doesn t guarantee health care to all people. It's a national embarrassment.
This is what corporate control of our government looks like.
We must always remember that change almost never happens from the top down, it happens from the bottom up.
Our health cannot continue to be dependent upon the whims of insurance companies whose only goal is to make as much profit as possible.
The decision to have an abortion is a right of any woman, without interference from politicians.
It's time for our country to join the rest of the world in implementing prescription drug policies that work for all, not just Big Pharma.
It is unacceptable that, in the United States, the cost of cancer drugs has more than doubled over the last 10 years to $9,900 a month.
Our civil liberties and right to privacy shouldn't be the price we pay for security.
In the United States of America, you should not be forced into bankruptcy because you are diagnosed with cancer.
All over this country, one out of five Americans cannot afford their prescriptions. People are dying because they cannot afford medication.
Since implementation, DACA has protected more than 700K young immigrants from deportation. It is time to protect their families as well.
It is unacceptable that total spending on medicine in the United States has gone up by more than 90 percent since 2002.
The United States is the only major country on Earth   the only one   that doesn't regulate prescription drug prices.
When it comes to basic workplace protections, workers in every other major industrialized country get a better deal than workers in the U.S.
Millions of seniors have to juggle their ability to buy food, medicine or heat. Those are not the choices seniors should be forced to make.
Today we have nearly 4 million American seniors who may skip dinner tonight because they do not have enough money to buy food today.
If we look at the greatness of a nation in that respect, the sad truth is that the United States today does not get particularly high marks.
A nation is judged not by how many billionaires and millionaires it has but by how it treats the most vulnerable people among us.
Democracy isn't about a handful of billionaires, like the Koch brothers or Sheldon Adelson, spending as much as they want to buy a race.
We need police reform so that young people can walk down the street without having to worry about if they're going to be harassed or shot.
In many states, it is legal to fire someone for being gay or to deny someone housing for being transgender. That must change.
People should be rewarded for getting an education, not punished with student debt of $50,000, $100,000 or more.
I am proud to have introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation in the history of the United States Senate.
Corporate greed is a scourge on this country, and it will take all of us standing up for justice in order to rein it in.
I applaud the workers who are demanding $15 an hour and a union. Keep fighting, sisters and brothers. #FightFor15
The idea that we are laying off teachers is completely absurd.
Do you know what workers fought for 100 years ago? A 40-hour workweek. 100 years ago. Today, we still have not achieved that goal.
Not only is this the right thing to do from a moral perspective, it is also what the vast majority of the American people want us to do.
We can lift this cap so that everyone making over $250k a year pays into Social Security and extend its solvency for the next 50 years.
Right now a billionaire pays the same amount of money into Social Security as someone who makes $118,500 a year.
Social Security has a $2.8 trillion surplus. It can pay every benefit owed to every eligible American for the next 19 years. #SocSec81
Wall Street and right-wing misinformation tell us Social Security, which is funded by the payroll tax, is going broke. They're dead wrong.
In the 81 years since FDR signed Social Security into law, it has been one of the nation s most successful anti-poverty programs. #SocSec81
House and Senate Democrats must join Sec. Clinton and go on record in opposition to a vote on TPP during a lame-duck session of Congress.
In total, Trump wants to provide a $3 trillion tax cut to Americans who make over $1 million a year.
Trump's plan to repeal the estate tax alone would give a $269 billion tax break over a 10-year period to the top two-tenths of 1 percent.
Meanwhile, Trump is proposing huge tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires while gutting the Department of Education and the EPA.
He's the poster child of failed trade policies:   Trump clothing made in Mexico   Trump ties made in China   Trump shirts made in Bangladesh
How serious is Trump about fixing the trade problem? From (now-defunct) Trump University: Outsourcing Creates Jobs in the Long Run.
Wanna know why Trump believes wages are too high in the U.S.?  He is used to paying 30 cents an hour in low-wage countries abroad.
Donald says he will fix trade.  He can start by shutting down his own sweatshops in Bangladesh and pay workers in the U.S. a living wage.
Why would we even expect Trump to come up with a serious plan to fix a rigged economy? He's the one who rigged it.
40 years ago young people could attend some of the great public universities of our nation virtually tuition-free. Why can't we do it now?
We should treat these families with the compassion, dignity and respect they deserve   not lock up mothers for over 100 days. #ShutDownBerks
If we are serious about criminal justice reform, we must remove marijuana from the federal Controlled Substances Act.
Keeping marijuana in the same category as heroin is absurd. The time is long overdue for us to remove the federal prohibition on marijuana.
By expanding worker-owned businesses we can create stronger companies throughout the country and improve working conditions for employees.
We need to expand economic models that help the middle class. I strongly believe that employee ownership is one of those models.
Proud of my former staff Chris Pearson, Tim Ashe and Anthony Pollina for winning their Vermont primary elections yesterday!
The billionaire class already controls much of our economy, and now they want to control the United States government as well.
At the same time, Congress should focus on demilitarization and ending a criminal justice system that targets African-Americans.
It is time for local police departments to start listening to their communities' concerns and enact policies that reflect those concerns.
The American people should not have to go without health care because Congress does not have the courage to stand up to the drug industry.
No one person alone can address the enormous problems facing working families in America. It will take a movement of millions of people.
The truth is that no great nation can survive economically, morally, or politically when so few have so much and so many have so little.
To my friends in CT, WI, MN and VT: I hope to see you at the voting booths today! Engage in the political process and reclaim our democracy.
Our infrastructure is collapsing and the American people know it. Time to invest in roads & bridges, not more jails.
At a time when this world faces so many problems, the corporate media will talk about everything in the world except important issues.
There is something profoundly wrong when billionaires are buying elections. That's not democracy.
Russ Feingold is someone we need in the Senate, and I'm proud to endorse his campaign. Go vote for @russfeingold today! #WisconsinPrimary
Maybe, just maybe, something is wrong when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of nearly any major country on earth.
It's time we had democratic socialism for working families, not just the very rich. We do that by ending huge tax breaks for billionaires.
All of the pundits always tell us what we cannot accomplish until the day after we accomplish it. That's been the story of struggle.
Let us feed our children first, educate our children first, and worry about the military-industrial complex later!
Do we stand with the 20 percent of our children who live in poverty or the military-industrial complex pumping billions into bombers?
The middle class is still suffering from the horrendous damage financial institutions and insurance companies did to this country in 2008.
Some members of Congress    mostly men, I should add   are trying to roll back the clock on women s rights. We can't let that happen.
Because of the greed and illegal behavior on Wall Street, millions lost their jobs, homes and ability to send their kids to college.
If the American people at the grassroots level begin to stand up and fight back, profound and positive changes take place across America.
It's an embarrassment that the Republican-led Congress, has refused to consider legislation to repair the damage to the Voting Rights Act.
We must remember that the struggle for our rights is not the struggle of a day or a year. It's the struggle of a lifetime.
It is an absolute outrage that we have Republican governors and legislators working overtime making it harder for people to vote.
We must remember the price paid for the right to vote. Change comes when the people demand it    in the voting booth and on the streets.
This campaign was never about Bernie Sanders. It's about a grassroots movement of Americans standing up and saying: 'Enough is enough!
We must work to transform American society by making our political and economic systems work for all of us, not just the 1 percent.
We become stronger when men and women, young and old, gay and straight, native born and immigrant stand together.
Together, we built something unprecedented through our presidential campaign. Now, we must take the next steps for our political revolution.
Election days come and go, but the struggle for economic, social, racial and environmental justice will always continue.
In 1977, 22 percent of all the jobs in this country were in manufacturing. Today, that figure is down to 8 percent.
For the first time in our history, American families have more student debt than credit card debt. That is an extraordinary reality.
Congress must ensure our elections belong to individual voters not billionaire donors.
Many children today enter kindergarten behind where they should be intellectually and emotionally because of inadequate childcare.
I am getting tired of being lectured by CEOs of large corporations who want to cut Social Security benefits in exchange for tax breaks.
The fact is that for many years, Republicans have been attempting to either cut Social Security or privatize it. We can't let that happen.
We can't afford benefits for some of the people who are struggling the hardest, but Congress has no issue with tax breaks for the Waltons.
All over the world, countries are saying, Let us put an end to state murder. Let us stop capital punishment. Time for us to do the same.
We need a rational immigration process, not the Republican alternatives of self deportation or some other draconian non-solution.
Climate change is real, caused by human activity and already creating devastating problems in the United States and around the world.
In my view, not only should we bring back Glass-Steagall, we should break up the big banks that are larger now than when we bailed them out!
The most effective way to rapidly create meaningful jobs is to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
For the last 40 years the great middle class of our country   once the envy of the world   has been disappearing.
The GOP is working overtime disenfranchising minorities. If Republicans can't face a free election, they should get another job.
We must demand that the United States join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care and education to all as a right.
Fundamental and transformational change doesn't happen overnight   it takes time to happen. This movement has got to continue.
What the continuation of the political revolution means is activating political consciousness across America and getting people involved.
The system is rigged when the average person works longer hours for lower wages, and over half of all new income goes to the top 1 percent.
Our job is not done. We must stand up and take on the billionaire class. That fight must continue the day after the election.
Let me be clear: we MUST continue the political revolution. We must continue to bring in millions of people into the fight for justice.
I don t believe it is a radical idea to say that someone who works 40 hours a week should not be living in poverty.
Trump has taken people's anger and anxiety about terrorism and converted it into anger against Mexicans or Muslims. It's wrong and immoral.
We need to end the race to the bottom and enact trade policies that demand that American corporations create jobs here, and not just abroad.
If corporate America wants us to buy their products, they damn well better start manufacturing them here in America.
It's time to end religious bigotry and build a nation in which we all stand together and condemn the anti-Muslim rhetoric we're hearing.
Our trade policies written by corporate America have cost us millions of jobs and have led to a race to the bottom.
We need policies that bring us together and create a middle class that works for all of us rather than an economy that works for just a few.
What Republicans are saying is that no woman in this country, has the right to control her own body. I strongly disagree.
Loudly and clearly, we must tell Republicans: no, we will not cut Social Security benefits for seniors and disabled veterans.
Republicans: try winning elections based on your ideas and your character, not on the amount of money you can collect from billionaires.
Republicans are waging a war against women and, let me be clear, it's not a war that we're gonna allow them to win.
I congratulate @HillaryClinton on this historic achievement. We are stronger together.
We must end the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality that we currently experience, the worst it has been since 1928.
Trump wants to abolish the Affordable Care Act and throw 20 million people off of health insurance. We can't let that happen. #DemsInPhilly
What we are dealing with now is quite honestly, the worst Republican candidate in the modern history of the United States of America.
The GOP wants us to forget that the greed and illegal behavior on Wall Street caused the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.
Drug companies should not be making billions in profits while one in five Americans are unable to afford the medicine they need.
We become stronger when black and white, Latino, Asian-American, Native American   all of us   stand together.
This election is about making sure that young people in this country are in good schools and at good jobs, not in jail cells.
Election days come and go. But political revolutions that attempt to transform our society never end.
This election is not just about electing a president. Far more significantly, it is about transforming America.
Our job now is to see a progressive platform implemented by a Democratic Senate, a Democratic House and a Hillary Clinton presidency!
It is no secret that Hillary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues. That s what this campaign and what democracy is about.
If you don t believe this election is important, if you think you can sit it out: you're wrong. Think about the future of the Supreme Court.
While Trump believes in huge tax breaks for billionaires, he believes states should have the right to lower the minimum wage below $7.25.
We need leaders who bring us together and make us stronger, not leaders who insult Latinos, Muslims, women and blacks and divide us up.
Together, my friends, we have begun a political revolution to transform America and that revolution   our revolution   continues.
Many here are disappointed. I think it s fair to say that no one is more disappointed than I am. But take pride in what we've accomplished.
And to my delegates: Thank you for all the work you ve done. I look forward to your votes during the roll call on Tuesday night.
Thank you to the 13 million Americans who voted for the political revolution, giving us 46 percent of the pledged delegates here tonight.
Election Days come and go but the fight for social, economic, racial and environmental justice continues. #DemsInPhilly
We have got to defeat Donald Trump and do everything we can to elect Hillary Clinton to the White house. #DemsInPhilly
Young people are the future of America, and they want a role in shaping that future! #DemsInPhilly
I've said it since day one: this campaign is about more than electing a president. It is about enacting a progressive agenda across America!
We need a party which is prepared to stand up for the 47 million people in this country who are living in poverty!
In the State of New York 3 million Independent voters could not participate in the Democratic nominee process. It's time for open primaries.
The party leadership must always remain impartial in the presidential nominating process, something which did not occur in the 2016 race.
It is time for us to have a government which represents all Americans, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality, we need tax policies that demand that the wealthy start paying their fair share of taxes.
The toxic chemicals used in fracking are known to cause lung cancer and birth defects. We must ban fracking and #KeepItInTheGround.
No amount of regulation can safely guard against the dangers fracking poses to our land, water, air, natural resources and public health.
We need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour over the next few years, and implement pay equity for women workers.
Fracking is a danger to our water supply, the air we breathe and it s contributing to climate change. Time to phase out fracking nationwide.
With real unemployment near 10 percent, we need a jobs program to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create millions of jobs.
Both the @EPA and the @theNASciences have shown clear evidence that hydraulic fracturing can lead to a contaminated water supply.
The time is long overdue for us to create an economy which works for the middle class of this country, and not just the 1 percent.
Billions of dollars are being funneled into our elections in a form of legalized bribery.
Trump s Supreme Court nominees would, like Scalia, oppose a woman s right to choose, support Citizens United and gut the Voting Rights Act.
Trump s economic plan: let states lower the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, already a starvation wage.
Trump s economic plan: same old, same old trickle-down economics. Pathetic. #RNCwithBernie
Will there be one word about student debt or making college affordable? Or just concerned about more tax breaks for the rich? #RNCwithBernie
Trump thinks climate change is a  hoax.  My supporters understand that we must move away from fossil fuels, not expand them. #RNCwithBernie
Our movement understands that what we don't need is Trump's huge tax breaks for millionaires. #RNCwithBernie
Looks like Ted Cruz was right about one thing. Trump does not understand what the Constitution is about. #RNCwithBernie
Trump:  I alone can fix this.  Maybe he doesn t understand that a president has to work with Congress. #RNCwithBernie
Trump:  I alone can fix this.  Is this guy running for president or dictator? #RNCwithBernie
Still waiting for a single word about covering the 28 million Americans without health insurance. I guess they don t matter much to Trump.
Citizens United is one of the worst decisions in our history. Will Trump mention it or is he too afraid of the Koch brothers? #RNCwithBernie
Fix trade. Stop manufacturing Trump clothing in Mexico. #RNCwithBernie
Fix trade. Stop manufacturing Trump ties in China.
Fix trade. Stop manufacturing Trump shirts in Bangladesh at 30-cents an hour. #RNCwithBernie
What a hypocrite! If Trump wants to fix trade he can start by making his products in the US, not low-wage countries abroad. #RNCwithBernie
Trump s economic plan: $3.2 trillion in tax breaks for millionaires, cut programs for low-income Americans. #RNCwithBernie
Trump s big economic plans: Give trillions in tax breaks to millionaires, refuse to raise the federal minimum wage. #RNCwithBernie
Trump is wrong. The real cause of instability in the Middle East was the Bush-Cheney invasion of Iraq. By the way, where is President Bush?
We believe in bringing people together, not dividing them up.
Those who voted for me will not support Trump who has made bigotry and divisiveness the cornerstone of his campaign. #RNCwithBernie
Will Trump mention climate change, the great environmental crisis of our time? Been waiting for a year now. #RNCwithBernie
Every American over 18 must be automatically registered to vote so that young people can make their voices heard at the ballot box.
We must put an end to discriminatory laws and the purging of minority-community names from voting rolls.
Change comes when the people demand it   in the voting booth and on the streets in peaceful demonstrations.
We must remember that the struggle for our rights is not the struggle of a day, or a year. It is the struggle of a lifetime.
When the votes of minorities are suppressed, it becomes easier for politicians who represent billionaires to win and hold elected office.
I have a message for Donald Trump: No, we re not going to hate Latinos or Muslims. We are going to stand together.
Make no mistake: the billionaire class does not want young and working people to vote.
In the shameful days of open segregation, literacy laws were used to suppress minority voting. Today, Republicans do it with photo ID laws.
Through a Prize Fund we can provide affordable access to medicines as soon as they are available on the market.
The prices of patented medicines are a significant barrier to access to health for millions Americans and people die because of it.
Poverty should not be a death sentence, neither in the United States nor anywhere else.  Yet it is, much to our disgrace.
It s fun for the media to treat Trump like a character in a soap opera, but the truth is his language is dangerous.
In my view, it makes a lot more sense to be investing in jobs and education, than more jails and incarceration.
We must once again make our country the leader in the fight for economic and social justice, for environmental sanity and for peace.
If @realDonaldTrump wants to open the door to racism, it is our job to shut that door, and shut it tight.
The greed of the billionaire class is destroying this country and whether they like it or not we are going to stop that greed.
I believe we have a moral obligation to pursue diplomatic solutions before resorting to military intervention.
Trump suggested limiting immigration according to religion and creating a national database based on religion   absolutely disgraceful.
To advance the cause of peace, the United States has also got to be a friend not only to Israel, but to the Palestinian people.
We have got to say to the fossil-fuel industry that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of this planet.
At a time of massive inequality, the Republicans believe that the richest people in America need to be made even richer.
I hope the Republicans listen to what the Pope has to say. Denying the science related to climate change is no longer acceptable.
Today in America we not only have an absence level of wealth and income inequality, we have a power structure that protects that inequality.
Lifting the cap on Social Security would increase cost-of-living-adjustments and increase minimum benefits paid to low-income seniors.
I'm asking people across the nation to come together and organize an unprecedented grassroots movement.
Together we're going to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision which has allowed millionaires to buy politicians.
Despite what the media tells you, politics is not a soap opera. Politics is about coming together to improve the lives of all.
We need a grassroots movement to tell the Koch brothers and the billionaire class that they won't be able to continue to buy elections.
We are building a movement because this country belongs to all of us - not just a handful of billionaires and wealthy campaign contributors.
No president alone can effectively address the crises facing the working families of this country without a powerful grassroots movement.
At what point will Congress have the courage to stand up to the greed of the pharmaceutical industry and say enough is enough?
American pharmaceutical companies couple outrageous prices on drugs with new and inventive ways to avoid paying taxes. It's truly shameless.
We must allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices and reduce the barriers to importing prescription drugs from Canada and other countries.
We need to re-enfranchise the more than 5 million Americans who have had their right to vote taken away by a felony conviction.
For the last 40 years the great middle class of our country   once the envy of the world   has been disappearing.
One in five people can't afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe. Elderly people are cutting pills in half for goodness' sake.
War must be the last resort, not the first response.
Change cannot take place without political participation.
Our movement is about creating an America that ensures nobody working 40 hours a week has to live in poverty.
In a democratic society, politics should not be treated like a baseball game or a soap opera. We need a serious discussion about the issues.
We need to end minimum sentencing. Too many people in America are serving unnecessarily long mandatory minimum sentences.
We must implement universal voter registration, so that anyone 18 years of age or older who is eligible to vote is automatically registered.
The debate is over. Climate change is real, it's caused by human activity and is already causing devastating damage to the entire planet.
In the United States of America we can create the conditions that allow people who are released from prison to stay out.
Pathetic. Billionaire Bully Trump wants to give huge tax breaks to the rich but opposes raising the federal minimum wage of $7.25.
Republican governors are working overtime to suppress the vote. If Republicans can't face a free election, they should get another job.
Sandra Bland. We will #SayHerName.
The United States should be leading the world in pushing our energy system away from fossil fuel and toward sustainable energy.
Our job now is to see our progressive platform implemented by a Democratic Senate, a Democratic House and a Hillary Clinton presidency.
Thank you to the 13 million Americans who voted for me and the hundreds of thousands of volunteers who worked so hard on our campaign.
Together, we have begun a political revolution to transform America and that revolution continues. Together. Not me, us.
The U.S. has less than 5 percent of the world s population, yet we incarcerate about a quarter of its prisoners   some 2.2 million people.
Children sleep out on the street while corporations do not pay a nickel in corporate taxes. That, together, we are going to change.
No one, in my view, should be allowed to profit from putting more people behind bars.
A handful of people on Wall Street have extraordinary power. In 2008, their illegal behavior nearly destroyed the U.S. and global economy.
The Federal Reserve has been hijacked by the very bankers it is in charge of regulating. If that ain't rigged, I don't know what is.
Fraud   The business model on Wall Street.
Why is it that kids are jailed for possessing marijuana but nothing happens to Wall Street execs whose illegal behavior harmed millions?
Thanks to millions of people across the country, we have the most progressive platform in the history of the Democratic Party. Thank you!
The system is rigged when the average person works longer hours for lower wages, and 58 percent of all new income goes to the top 1 percent.
Together these steps will get us closer to the day when everyone in America has access to quality, affordable health care.
Efforts to give Americans a public-option choice and to expand Medicare by allowing people to opt in at 55 years are important steps.
Today's proposal by @HillaryClinton is an important step toward expanding health insurance and health care access to millions of Americans.
The goal of health care reform in America is to guarantee health care for all as a right, what every other major country on earth does.
A few years ago, the fight for $15 was considered radical. Today, it is a cornerstone of the Democratic Party. Now let's make it the law.
It is clear that we need to fundamentally reject our  free trade  policies and move to fair trade.
Today, shamefully, we have more than 12 million Latinos living in poverty. This is nearly one out of every four Latinos in this country.
In the richest country in the history of the world, it is not a radical idea to make sure that every American is entitled to health care.
It's up to the next Democratic president of the United States to fulfill the legacies of FDR and Truman and guarantee health care for all.
The attack on police officers in Dallas last night is horrifying and despicable. We must as a nation stand against violence of all kinds.
It's not acceptable that a handful of billionaires is now controlling our political process and the corporate media refuse to talk about it.
When we guarantee health care for all, every American will be able to see a doctor when they need to and not worry about going bankrupt.
I kind of think that if every other major country can have health care as a right, then you know what? So can the United States of America.
As South Carolina Rep. Wendell Gilliard proclaimed: Enough is enough of our police officers targeting people of color.
We need real criminal justice reform so that people can walk down the street without worrying about whether they'll get harassed or shot.
Today African-Americans are almost four times as likely to experience the use of force during encounters with the police. #PhilandoCastille
The violence that killed Alton Sterling and Philando Castile has become an all too common occurrence for people of color and IT. MUST. STOP.
The U.S. is the only major country on earth that does not provide universal health care to all.
Free speech does not equal the ability of people to buy elections
For perhaps the first time in modern history, our younger generation will probably have a lower standard of living than their parents.
Congress must stand up to the multi-national food industry and reject this outrageous bill. Text GMO to 82623 to call your senators.
Monsanto is spending millions of dollars to overturn legislation passed by states that calls for the labeling of GMO food.
I applaud @HillaryClinton for the very bold initiative she has just brought forth for the financing of higher education.
For some, it means not going to college at all. For others, it means graduating school with crippling student loan debt.
As I traveled throughout the country, I heard over and over again what the high costs of college and student debt do to people's lives.
When parents buy food for their children, they have a right to know what they're feeding them. We must allow states to require GMO labeling.
Despite major increases in productivity, the median male worker in America today is making $726 dollars LESS than he did in 1973.
We need to end the international scandal in which large corporations avoid paying trillions in taxes to their national governments.
We don't need more unfettered free trade deals that outsource millions of jobs and shut down tens of thousands of factories. #StopTPPNow
Elected officials must focus on protecting the environment for our future generations, not enable polluters to curb regulations. #StopTPPNow
A disastrous trade agreement should not be fast-tracked for a vote on Congress. In fact, it should never be brought to a vote. #StopTPPNow
While we're trying to supplement our nearly 1900 delegates' trips to the convention, they're largely self-funding. Help them out if you can.
We have got to cut military spending around the globe and address the true causes of war: poverty, hatred, hopelessness and ignorance.
Let s be clear: we have an economic model developed by the economic elite to benefit the economic elite. Time for real change.
We shouldn't have to compete against workers in low-wage countries. Instead, we should help those countries develop sustainable economies.
The top 1 percent now owns more wealth than the whole of the bottom 99 percent. How has this been accepted for so long?
At a time when huge financial institutions are bigger now than before they were bailed out, we must enact a 21st-century Glass-Steagall Act.
The Party platform drafted in St. Louis is an excellent start but, let us be clear, it's a document that needs to be significantly improved.
The issue of labeling our food isn t controversial. The overwhelming majority of Americans favor GMO labeling.
People have a right to know what is in the food they eat and the Senate shouldn't stop states from passing laws that let that happen.
The American people have made it perfectly clear time and time again: climate change is real and we must take bold action to curb it today.
Fossil fuel executives are hell-bent on doing everything in their power to block action and they're doing it by bankrolling elections.
Some corporations have deliberately chosen to put profits ahead of the health of people and our planet. They must be brought to justice.
We must do all we can to ensure Donald Trump does not become president. Climate change skepticism has no place in the Oval Office.
We must move forward with climate justice policies that recognize the public health risks faced by low-income and minority communities.
Some politicians still refuse to recognize the reality of climate change. In the year 2016. It's a national embarrassment.
Citizens United amounts to legalized bribery   plain and simple.
Public funding of elections increases voter participation and lowers time spent on fundraising, allowing politicians to work on real issues.
Putting a price on carbon via a carbon tax is one of the most cost-effective strategies for quickly fighting climate change.
As a father of four and a grandfather of seven, I'll do all I can to leave a healthy, livable planet for all of our kids and grandchildren.
We must ban offshore drilling, stop dirty pipeline projects like the Keystone XL and stop exports of liquefied natural gas and crude oil.
For every dollar invested in energy efficiency, families and businesses can enjoy up to $4 in energy savings.
If this country is about anything, it s about religious freedom and religious tolerance. We're not going to accept Trump's bigotry.
Let s be frank, we have a very corrupt campaign finance system that allows Wall Street and billionaires to buy elections. That's gotta end.
We still have, despite the gains of the Affordable Care Act, 28 million people with no health insurance. How is that moral?
Trade is a good thing but it has to be fair. And the TPP is anything but fair. We must ensure the TPP doesn't come up for a vote. #StopTPP
We need trade policies that benefit American workers, not just corporate CEOs. Democrats must do all they can to defeat the TPP. #StopTPP
The TPP is a continuation of our disastrous trade policies that have devastated manufacturing cities all over this country. #StopTPP
Our job is to do everything we can to rally support for an amendment to the platform in strong opposition to the TPP. #StopTPP
We've made some great progress in the Democratic Party platform, but more needs to be done. We must defeat the disastrous TPP. #StopTPP
Today, the wealthiest 62 people on this planet own as much wealth as the bottom half of the world s population   around 3.6 billion people.
That is our greatest danger: becoming used to it and thinking it is normal. It is NOT normal. It is an outrage.
We cannot allow ourselves to become used to the fact that we have tens of thousands of children in this country who are homeless.
Today, thousands of undocumented workers face horrific working conditions and they can't fight back because they have no legal rights.
But we don't need change based on the demagogy, bigotry and anti-immigrant sentiment that punctuated much of the Leave campaign s rhetoric.
The global economy is not working for the majority of people in our country and the world. We need real change.
The United States of America should not treat Puerto Rico like a colony. That's not a radical idea.
When we talk about the measure of a  great nation,  it s not the number of billionaires, but how we treat the most vulnerable amongst us.
We must end our grotesque level of income and wealth inequality whereby 20 individuals own more wealth than the bottom half of America.
They tell us the only thing we can get is incremental change. We tell them: no thanks. We're thinking big and demanding real change.
This political revolution is not about Bernie Sanders or anybody else. It's about you and millions of voters. You are the revolutionaries.
Today SCOTUS reaffirmed a woman's access to a safe and legal abortion as a constitutional right. A victory for women across America.
It is wrong that women are paid less than men for doing the same work. We've gotta move forward and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act into law.
The American people are angry. But we must not succumb to the bigotry and divisiveness of Donald Trump and others like him.
We must take on the greed and power of corporate America, and create a government and an economy that works for all, not just the 1 percent.
Unfettered free trade has made multi-national corporations more profitable while leading to the loss of millions of good-paying jobs.
We must build upon this great progress and continue the fight for full equality for the LGBTQ community.
On this day last year, the Supreme Court breathed life into the words engraved in the building s marble pediment:  Equal Justice under Law. 
The middle class in the United States has been in decline for 35 years while there has been a huge increase in income and wealth inequality.
What the mainstream media has got to understand is that they are far removed from the reality of where many American people are.
Despite what the establishment thinks in talking to each other, it turns out that ordinary Americans want real change.
I don't want you to think you're courageous radicals. You are not. Turns out that our ideas are mainstream and supported by millions people.
We're not gonna allow the corporate media to define the issues for us. It's up to us to talk about reality in America.
My supporters are smart enough to know that we do not want a bigot to become president of the United States.  cc: @realDonaldTrump
Not only do we need to fix our broken immigration system, we also need to end the rigged economy that's destroying our middle class.
My father s story, my story, the modern immigrant s story is the story of America   and it is a story that must be celebrated, not reviled.
Today we are spending $80 billion a year locking up 2.2 million Americans, disproportionately African-American, Latino, and Native-American.
It is time to stop building jails and invest in the future. Our young people should be working or in school, not rotting in a jail cell.
Hispanic women in this country don t need just 55 cents compared to men   they need the whole damn dollar.
Senate Republicans must stop playing politics and confirm a ninth justice to the Supreme Court.
We cannot let their future, and the future of so many more vulnerable people, fall into the bigoted hands of Donald Trump.
Today's deadlocked immigration ruling means that more than 4 million aspiring Americans will be left waiting for much-needed answers.
We must end the current deportation machine in America. The rounding up of families that happened around Christmas time must end.
In my view, now is the time to recognize that there is another option to help the people of Puerto Rico, not just austerity. #NALEOConf16
We spend $80 billion a year locking up 2.2 million Americans, disproportionately African-American, Latino and Native-American. #NALEOConf16
Trump's divisive rhetoric is unacceptable and must be rejected. We don t need a wall and barbed wire; we need to fix our immigration system.
I have seen the sadness of families torn apart by a broken immigration system in the United States. This human suffering has got to end.
The Republican Party now controls both the governors  mansions and statehouses in 23 states. That is just unacceptable.
We must aggressively combat climate change by moving to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and imposing a tax on carbon.
The Democratic Party needs a 50-state strategy. We may not win in every state tomorrow but we must provide resources to these states.
Sadly, the current Democratic leadership has turned its back on dozens of states and allowed right-wing politicians to win elections.
We must resist all efforts to cut Social Security. Instead, we've gotta fight to expand benefits for our seniors and disabled veterans.
The greed, recklessness and illegal behavior on Wall Street has got to end. It's up to us to end it for them.
We must defeat the Trans-Pacific Partnership and make certain that it does not get a vote in a lame-duck session of Congress.
From Flint, Michigan to California we have communities unable to drink the polluted water that comes out of their faucets. In the year 2016.
The reality is that today millions of our fellow Americans are working at starvation wages.
Our brave young men and women in the military should not thrown into perpetual warfare in wars we should not be fighting.
Health care is a right, not a privilege. It's time for the United States to implement a single-payer system like Medicare for all.
We must ban fracking if we want to protect our water supply.
It s not very hard to understand that potential terrorists, criminals and the dangerously mentally ill should not have access to guns.
America has always been a beacon of hope for those fleeing violence and persecution. We cannot turn our backs on refugees. #WorldRefugeeDay
Our welcoming nature has been a point of pride for decades: we believe in helping all refugees from around the world. #WorldRefugeeDay
We can't allow guns to fall into the hands of people who shouldn't have them and that includes those on the terror watch list.
It's long past time to end the gun show loophole and expand instant background checks.
Today, millions of bright young kids are struggling with suffocating levels of student debt. As a nation we must end that disgrace.
Why is it that in the richest country on earth we are experiencing the highest level of childhood poverty of almost any major country?
Real change happens when tens of millions of people say  enough is enough  and become engaged in the fight for justice.
Today the 20 wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom 150 million. We must end this grotesque level of income inequality.
Why is it that our Native American brothers and sisters on some reservations have a life expectancy lower than many third-world countries?
It is a disgrace that hundreds of thousands of bright young people are unable to go to college because their families lack the income.
In many inner cities, kids now stand a greater chance of ending up in jail than ending up with a college degree. That's gotta end.
We must compete effectively in a global economy by making public colleges and universities tuition-free.
We must end the disgrace of having more people in jail than any other country on earth and move toward real criminal justice reform.
We must join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people as a right and not a privilege.
We must pass comprehensive immigration reform and provide a path toward citizenship for 11 million undocumented people.
We must ensure that women will no longer make 79 cents on the dollar compared to men and that we fight for pay equity.
We must fight to make certain that women throughout the country have the right to control their own bodies.
Bernie supporters want to run for office in:    51% of state house districts    69% of state senate districts &   every U.S. House district.
If we are serious about criminal justice reform, we must remove marijuana from the federal Controlled Substances Act.
I find it strange that the kid who smokes marijuana gets arrested but the crooks on Wall Street get off scot free.
As I have said throughout this campaign, the Democratic Party must support raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour.
We must ban the sale and distribution of assault weapons, end the gun show loophole and expand instant background checks.
My hope is that when future historians look back on the campaign of 2016 they will say that is where it all began. Thank you #OurRevolution
The political revolution means more than fighting for our ideals at the Democratic National Convention and defeating Trump. #OurRevolution
This campaign has never been about any single candidate. It is about transforming America. #OurRevolution
Special thanks to the students struggling with loans, seniors on Social Security, workers earning low wages & the unemployed. #OurRevolution
Unprecedented:    2.7 million people donated to our movement    with over 8 million contributions   at an average of $27. #OurRevolution
You should not be able to walk into a gun store and purchase assault weapons. These type of weapons should be banned.
Over 15 million children in America today are poor   more than 20 percent of all of the kids living in America today.
Almost every country in the world has at least 10 days of paid vacation per year, except the United States.
It is a national disgrace that billionaires are able to heavily influence the political process by making huge contributions.
Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages. They are overworked, underpaid and under enormous stress.
This movement is sending a message to the billionaire class: You can t have it all. This is our country too.
In my view, every worker in America should be guaranteed at least twelve weeks of paid family and medical leave.
We need real reform within the Democratic Party. And that means open primaries.
The idea that in the State of New York 3 million people could not participate in helping select the Democratic nominee is incomprehensible.
Thank you to everyone in D.C. who went out to vote and thank you all for your support!
We know that one hateful person committed a heinous crime, not an entire people. To blame an entire religion is nothing less than bigotry.
These types of weapons, without a doubt, should be banned.
The idea that weapons designed to do one thing   kill people by the dozens   should be sold and distributed in our country is absurd.
We must get rid of superdelegates. The fact that we had 400 superdelegates pledged eight months before the first ballot was cast is absurd.
We have to replace the current DNC leadership. We need someone who vigorously supports bringing people into the political process.
Make our country work for everyone, not just a handful of billionaires. Let s bring it home. Washington, D.C.   go vote. #FeelTheBern
My plan: break up big banks, close tax loopholes and make them pay their fair share. Then we can expand health care and make college free.
It is an embarrassment that some politicians refuse to recognize the reality of climate change.
From what is now known, this was a terrorist act by an ISIS sympathizer. That despicable and barbaric organization must be destroyed.
Some of us believe that what God teaches is to not turn our backs on our brothers and our sisters, that essentially we are in this together.
Our economy works for Wall Street because it s rigged by Wall Street. As long as Washington's bought, our economy won't work for the people.
Universal health care is an idea that has been supported by Democratic presidents going back to Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman.
We must lead the world in working with China, Russia, India and the international community to break our energy dependence on fossil fuel.
Millions of lives are being wrecked, families are being torn apart and we are spending huge sums of taxpayer money by locking people up.
We must not succumb to bigotry. We must do what we do best as Americans   fight racism, fight xenophobia and fight fear.
A job must lift workers out of poverty, not keep them in it. The current federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage.
We cannot continue to send our jobs to China and other low-wage countries when millions of Americans need work.
More than one-third of our senior citizens rely on Social Security for virtually all of their income. We must expand benefits, not cut them.
We must end the over-incarceration of nonviolent Americans in our country.
It is not good enough to talk about public education being kindergarten to 12th grade anymore. We need to make public colleges tuition-free.
Our job is to bring the American people together to create a government that works for us, not the 1 percent.
But you all know it is more than Bernie Sanders. It is all of us together. Millions of people from coast to coast coming together.
When millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, we won't allow 57 percent of all new income to go to the top 1 percent.
I'm horrified by yesterday's terrorist attack in Tel Aviv. My thoughts are with the victims' families and all of those harmed.
The American people know that it is not acceptable that the top tenth of 1 percent owns as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
Our mission is more than just defeating Trump. It is transforming our country. People want something to vote for rather than just against.
The American people will never support a candidate whose major theme is bigotry. We will not allow Donald Trump to become president.
We will not allow right-wing Republicans to control our government. That is especially true with Donald Trump as the Republican candidate.
Young people understand that they are the future of America, and they intend to help shape that future.
We have won 22 state elections with over 11 million votes and in virtually every state, we've won in big numbers the votes of young people.
When we began this campaign we were considered to be a fringe campaign. Over the last year, I think that has changed just a little bit.
We must always remember that change almost never happens from the top down, it happens from the bottom up.
We are in this TOGETHER. Thank you New Mexico, California, South Dakota, North Dakota, New Jersey and Montana! #NotMeUs
Thank you to the thousands of supporters who came out to vote for the political revolution in New Jersey today!
North Dakota: today we caucus. Get to your caucus by 7 pm. If there's a large voter turnout, we will win. Join history in the making.
Mis profundas condolencias a la familia Ch vez ante el fallecimiento de Helen Ch vez, gran l der y defensora de los trabajadores del campo.
My profound condolences to the Ch vez family on the passing of Helen Ch vez, great leader and activist for farmworker's rights. #SiSePuede
Defy the pundits again and reach for a high voter turnout that'll shock the establishment. Grab your friends and go vote. #PrimaryDay
Pundits and the political press wanna call this race early before every person votes. Let's show them we ain't gonna let it happen. Go vote.
California   today you can send a message that this country belongs to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires. Go vote. #PrimaryDay
Montana: your polls are open. Don't settle for a rigged economy held in place by a corrupt campaign finance system. Vote Bernie! #PrimaryDay
New Mexico   your polls are open until 7 PM. Go out and vote for REAL CHANGE, not the same old, same old establishment politics. #PrimaryDay
South Dakota and New Jersey   your polls are open. Show the country that it is too late for establishment politics. Please go vote.
I am running for president because it is too late for establishment politics and too late for establishment economics. We need real change.
We must recreate our criminal justice system, but we cannot do that as long as corporations are allowed to profit from mass incarceration.
We need bold change in our criminal justice system. A good first step forward is to start treating prisoners as human beings.
Ramadan Mubarak to all our Muslim sisters and brothers.
With so much violence already in the world, I just don't think the state itself should be killing people. I'm against capital punishment.
Raids are not the answer. We cannot continue to employ inhumane tactics involving rounding up and deporting thousands of immigrant families.
It's irresponsible that my opponent justifies sending children back to terribly violent countries as a way to send a message.
It is more important to rebuild the Flint water system and our school system than to give tax breaks to profitable corporations.
If you care about clean water in Flint, how can you turn around and support fracking? We need to put an end to fracking across our country.
Puerto Rico    Tu voto es tu voz! Si ya est s en el centro de votaci n, qu date ah  hasta que puedas votar. #Primarias2016
Progressives and Democrats win elections when people are energized, when they are prepared to stand up and fight to transform America.
My plan to expand Social Security would increase benefits by about $1,300 annually for seniors scraping by on less than $16,000 a year.
Muhammad Ali was the greatest, not only an extraordinary athlete but a man of great courage and humanity.
Our job is to take on Wall Street, not take their money.
Republicans hate the government   unless you re a woman. Then they love the government dictating what you can do with your own body.
En una noche cualquiera, casi 565,000 personas no tienen hogar en Estados Unidos. Esa es una verg enza nacional.
We need police forces that reflect the diversity of our communities, including in the training academies and leadership.
The American people overwhelmingly tell us they want to expand Social Security. With your support, that s exactly what we re going to do.
I have to say that I am delighted that Sec. Clinton month after month seems to be adopting more of the positions that we have advocated.
We must not allow our children to be poisoned by toxic drinking water just so a handful of fossil fuel companies can make even more profits.
The last 5 years in California have been the driest on record forcing Modesto, CA to reduce its water consumption by more than 30 percent.
Desde 2007, Puerto Rico ha perdido casi 300,000 empleos, resultando en una reducci n del 30% en su fuerza laboral.
What happens if we don't act boldly to combat climate change? The CIA says that a warming planet will increase international instability.
I will make it a priority that the United States lead the world in combatting climate change. That's what we need: leadership on this issue.
If we do not boldly transform our energy system, it will mean even more drought, and the last thing that California needs is more drought.
Climate change is real, it's caused by human activity and it's already causing devastating problems in the U.S. and around the world.
Unlike Donald Trump, Californians understand better than anyone that climate change is real because they see it with their own eyes.
When we talk about our responsibilities as human beings, there is nothing more important than leaving our planet healthy for our children.
While Congress has not been able to end the greed of Big Pharma, the people of CA can by voting for the California Drug Price Relief Act.
Since 1998, Big Pharma has spent more than $3 billion on lobbying. Over $1 billion more than the insurance industry which came in 2nd place.
Let me be as clear as I can be: if I am elected president we will work together on a nationwide ban on fracking. We must #KeepItInTheGround.
It s laughable that Trump now says he s going to turn the GOP into a  worker s party.  How about you start by not trying to rip them off?
As president, I'd make sure everyone can get a college education regardless of income and I'd work hard to shut down these predatory scams.
Trump's latest scam demonstrates why we need free tuition at public universities. Higher education should be a right.
The state of Vermont was the first state to end fracking and if I have anything to say about it, we're gonna end it in the other 49 as well.
This month we celebrate the right to love one another regardless of gender and the fight for equality for LGBT people. Happy #PrideMonth!
In the Senate, I worked with Sen. Boxer to end extraction of ALL fossil fuels on public lands. We cannot put California s beaches at risk.
Offshore fracking has the potential to pollute the ocean with toxic fluid, hurt the environment, and harm our beaches. Unacceptable.
Hillary Clinton worked to export fracking throughout the world to reward companies like Chevron and Halliburton. That is unacceptable.
Sec. Clinton does not support a ban on fracking. Instead, she would simply impose a few more regulations on it. Not good enough.
We need to implement a nationwide ban on fracking   period. And, that s exactly what I will fight for as president.
Secretary Clinton and I have differences of opinion on many issues. In no area are our differences stronger than fracking.
When we pass Medicare for all, everyone will have the freedom to go to the doctor when they need to without worrying about going bankrupt.
You know what was called  socialized medicine  in 1965? Medicare. Now widely regarded one of the best government programs ever established.
I do think that we can fulfill the legacy of presidents F.D.R., Truman, and L.B.J. and guarantee health care for all people as a right.
Every day, the corporate-controlled media and the political establishment tell us: think small. Well, you know what? We're gonna think big.
It makes no sense to continue to spend far more per capita than do the people of any other nation on health care and get far worse outcomes.
How does it happen that the United States is the only major country on earth not to guarantee health care to all people as a right?
The Affordable Care Act, which I helped write, has done some good things. But even with those improvements, we have got to do more.
We must enlist farmers as partners in promoting conservation and stewardship to keep our air and water clean and to combat climate change.
Last week, Golden State was down three games to one. Tonight, they finished off a great comeback in California. I like comebacks.
The growing body of evidence tells us that fracking is a danger to our water supply   our most precious resource. #KeepItInTheGround
It is unacceptable that the top 10% of farms collect 75% of farm subsidies, while the bottom 62% do not receive any subsidies.
The situation in Flint is a tragedy. All over this country our infrastructure is collapsing, including in the Central Valley here in CA.
We must never take lightly the decision to send our sons and daughters to battle, and it must always be the last resort.
Our men and women in uniform take an oath to defend our Constitution and many have made the ultimate sacrifice for it.
Today we honor all of the service members who sacrificed their lives for our great country. #MemorialDay2016
We must end inhumane deportation programs and racial profiling that have turned local law enforcement officials into immigration officers.
Private, for-profit detention centers are making record breaking profits every year locking people up and holding immigrants in detention.
We must not allow our children to be poisoned by toxic drinking water just so a handful of fossil fuel companies can make even more profits.
While California is in a serious drought, we are injecting 160K gallons of clean water, on average, into the ground for every fracked well.
Too many farmworkers today aren t getting the work breaks they need and in some instances they're having their wages stolen by employers.
If the American people become more engaged in the political process, there is no limit to what we can accomplish.
Special interest donors are many things   dummies they are not. They know exactly who and what they want to influence.
If we win California, it'll be because there is a large voter turnout. We are striking a nerve, and more people are getting involved.
I am blown away by the fact that since we began this campaign one year ago we have received over 8 million individual contributions.
Demanding that the wealthy and the powerful start paying their fair share of taxes   that s exactly what the American people want.
There is no reason why women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. Women want the whole damn dollar and they're right!
We need to invest in help for people with substance abuse problems so that they end up in treatment, not prison.
The fact of the matter is that senior citizens are struggling to pay for their medication while Big Pharma is making billions in profits.
We have a moral responsibility to combat climate change and leave this planet healthy and habitable for our kids and grandchildren.
Here's a radical idea: If you work 40 hours a week, you should not be living in poverty.
If you want a campaign that can defeat Trump and defeat him badly, we are that campaign.
We need to end prisons for profit, which result in an over-incentive to arrest, jail and detain, in order to keep prison beds full.
We need to federally fund and require body cameras for law enforcement officers to make it easier to hold them accountable.
The middle class should not be subsidizing the wealthiest family in America just because the Waltons are too cheap to pay a living wage!
If current trends continue, one in four black males born today can expect to spend time in prison during their lifetime. This is a tragedy.
America is not supposed to be a country where the top 1 percent owns almost as much as the bottom 99 percent.
I am delighted that @realDonaldTrump has agreed to debate. Let s do it in the biggest stadium possible.
We have got to end corporate prisons and detention centers. It is a perverse incentive to make more money by locking up more Americans.
Our message to Wall Street is simple: you cannot have it all! This country belongs to all of us, not just the wealthy and special interests.
Game on. I look forward to debating Donald Trump in California before the June 7 primary.
A rigged economy is when the top 1/10 of 1 percent owns as much as the bottom 90 percent.
Donald Trump and his friends should realize that their bigotry is the past, not the future.
A rigged economy is when the twenty wealthiest people now own more wealth than the bottom 150 million Americans.
A $1 trillion investment in infrastructure could create 13 million decent paying jobs. We need to invest in infrastructure, not more war.
It is insulting to the people of California that Sec. Clinton is not willing to debate and address the major crises that this country faces.
Young people are figuring out that they are the future of this country, and they damn well want to help shape the future of this country.
The time is long overdue to ensure that all workers in this country have access to paid family leave, paid sick time and paid vacation time.
What I saw at the US-Mexico border was the fact that you've got children on one side and their mothers on the other. That's wrong.
What I beg of you is to think big, not small. We can end the tragedy that is 29 million Americans living without health insurance.
When children come from war-torn countries in Central America, our job is to give them freedom and security here in the United States.
If anyone thinks that Bernie alone will be able to take on the powerful interests, you are mistaken. We are in this together! #NotMeUs
Everybody knows that we are living in a competitive global economy. So why are we punishing our people for getting a college education?
You are the reason that we are the best campaign to defeat Trump. It s your energy, excitement, and grassroots activism making it possible.
Corporate media wants you to think small, to think that we cannot provide education and healthcare for all. I strongly disagree!
We're gonna tell the billionaire class that they are not gonna get more tax breaks while Americans struggle to buy bread for their families!
Too many Americans are worried about how they are going to pay for the gas to get to work. People are struggling. People are hurting.
It is not good enough to talk about public education being kindergarten to 12th grade anymore. We need to make public colleges tuition-free.
Together, we're going to end our current deportation policies. Our approach to immigration should be to unite families, not divide families.
When people don t come out to vote, Republicans win. When people stand up and turn out to vote in large numbers, Democrats win.
Substance abuse   alcoholism or drug abuse   is not a criminal issue, it is a health issue. We must understand this as a nation.
The fossil fuel industry tells us that we cannot move aggressively to combat climate change. But that is precisely what we will do.
We all agree that Donald Trump would be a disaster for this country. He must be defeated, and I am the strongest candidate to do that.
America needs a president who will stand up to the fossil fuel industry and tell them their profits are not more important than the planet.
Tuition-free public college is not a radical idea. It exists all over the world in places like Germany and Mexico.
We must stop treating Puerto Rico like a colony and start treating the people of Puerto Rico with the respect and dignity that they deserve.
Nearly eight out of ten workers who can take time off under the Family and Medical Leave Act cannot do so because they can t afford it.
Teachers are doing the most important work in America. They deserve to have recognition, respect and better pay.
The only way change takes place is when people come together, stand up and fight back to say that the status quo is unacceptable.
We have got to tell corporate America that if they want us to buy their products, they damn well better manufacture them in America.
We need a living wage of $15 an hour, so that if you re working 40 hours a week you are living with security and dignity.
Nationally, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth. $80 billion a year locking up 2.2 million people.
It's unacceptable that billionaire families can leave virtually all of their wealth to their families without paying a reasonable fair tax.
Americans should not have to live in fear that they will go bankrupt if they get sick because politicians won't challenge the drug lobby.
Our country should be investing in jobs and education for our young people, not more jails and incarceration.
As president, I will end the subsidies that benefit fossil fuel companies. It is absurd to provide taxpayer money to pad the industry.
Kentucky, thank you for the tremendous support that led to last night's virtual tie! We are in this until the last ballot is counted.
Washington rescat  a Goldman Sachs y a Wall St de su bancarrota. El Pueblo de Puerto Rico es m s importante que ellos. Debemos actuar YA.
I have been attacked for saying this, so let me say it again: I believe health care is a right, not a privilege.
A historic moment for the United States as the first openly-gay leader of any U.S. military service. Congratulations, @SECARMY Eric Fanning.
We must stand with our LGBTQ brothers and sisters and end all forms of discrimination. It's simple: we are all in this together. #IDAHOT2016
En las  ltimas d cadas ha habido una gran redistribuci n de riqueza en Estados Unidos. Desgraciadamente, ha sido en la direcci n equivocada.
We must recommit to fulfilling the promise of Brown and work to ensure that every child regardless of race has access to quality education.
That number was 2,762 in 1988. We must do more to ensure that our schools are racially and economically diverse. #BrownVBoard
There are 6,727 highly-segregated schools in our nation, where one percent or less of the school population is white. #BrownVBoard
Kentucky and Oregon   today is your day to make sure you've voted for our movement. Head to your polling location or drop box and vote.
Oscar Lopez Rivera has served 34 years in prison for his commitment to Puerto Rico's independence. I say to President Obama: let him out.
What vulture funds on Wall Street are demanding is that Puerto Rico fire teachers and cut pensions so that they can reap huge profits.
We need to expand, not eliminate, the collective bargaining rights of all Americans. When unions are strong, the middle class is strong.
The extreme right wing has been waging a war to dismantle unions all over this country. That is a war they cannot be allowed to win.
Companies should not be allowed to make a profit by keeping more Americans behind bars. We must end the for-profit prison racket in America.
While Republicans and the Koch brothers may not like it, we are going to make it easier, not harder, for American workers to form a union.
Americans living with HIV/AIDS should not live in fear of going bankrupt because of the outrageously high cost of their prescription drugs.
We must address the crisis of homelessness. If we could bail out Wall Street, we can make sure everyone has a safe and secure place to live.
Debemos acabar con sentencias m nimas obligatorias. Demasiadas vidas han sido destruidas a causa de cr menes no-violentos.
Public college and university education in America must be tuition-free. We could do it 50 years ago, why the hell can't we do it today?
It is extremely sad that the United States, one of the oldest democracies, has one of the lowest voter turnouts of any major country.
It's immoral and unjust to leave tens of millions of Americans without health care. Any health care plan must address that issue.
I've got some bad news for Trump: If I am the Democratic nominee, I'm going to defeat him, and I will defeat him by very large margins.
I urge @POTUS to use his executive authority to protect families by extending Temporary Protective Status to those who fled Central America.
The truth is that no president alone can do what it takes to rebuild the middle class. We need a political revolution of millions of people.
At a time when over half of all older workers have no retirement savings, we re going to expand Social Security.
It is not a radical idea to say that no person in this country working 40 hours a week should live in poverty.
We need to make public colleges and universities tuition-free and pay for that by imposing a speculation tax on Wall Street.
Workers are telling us that they cannot make it by on $7, $10 or $12 an hour. We must raise the minimum wage to a living wage of $15.
Not only do we get a lot of the Democratic votes, we get a lot of the Independent votes. Our campaign is best suited to beat Donald Trump.
At a time of massive wealth and income inequality, the wealthiest people in this country are gonna start paying their fair share of taxes.
We must break up too-big-to-fail banks, restore Glass-Steagall, and demand that Wall Street invests in the job-creating productive economy.
We need to make sure that every worker in this country has at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.
West Virginia   the polls are open and it's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and family and go vote.
We need to make health care a right for every man, woman, and child through a Medicare-for-All health care system.
We need to expand collective bargaining rights and make it easier for workers across the country to form a union.
Workers who are able to collectively bargain for higher wages and benefits earn substantially more than non-union workers.
We have gotta ask the media if they think that as a nation, maybe the American people are entitled to hear real discussions on real issues.
Some have touted NAFTA as a job creator recently. 850,000 jobs lost in the United States prove otherwise.
Un multimillonario paga la misma cantidad al Seguro Social que alguien que gan  $118,500 al a o. Lleg  el momento de cambiar eso.
People fought and died to make sure that all of us have a right to vote. Trump's remarks asking West Virginians not to vote are disgraceful.
We need to ensure access to quality affordable childcare for working families, especially for parents who work non-traditional hours.
We must protect and defend the fundamental right of women to control their own bodies, including a woman s right to have an abortion.
The sad reality is that we have thousands of people who die every year in this country because they can't afford to get to a doctor on time.
The American people are tired of a broken criminal justice system that enables us to have more people in jail than any country on earth.
We must rewrite the disastrous trade policies enabling corporate America to shut down plants in this country and move to low-wage countries.
Today, 29 million Americans remain without health insurance and even greater numbers are underinsured. We can and must do better.
At a time when every major country on earth guarantees health care to all their people, we should do the same in the United States.
At a time when we need the best-educated workforce in the world, we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
If we are serious about safe and clean drinking water and clean air, we need to phase out fracking nationwide. #KeepItInTheGround
We must pursue the fight for women s rights, gay rights and disability rights until the promise of equality is fully realized in America.
We must strengthen the role of unions and the voices of working people on the job. I urge VICE Canada workers to vote for a union voice.
Esta elecci n no se trata tan s lo de elegir al pr ximo presidente. Es algo mucho m s importante   se trata de transformar a Estados Unidos.
In this country, people should have the right to love each other regardless of their gender.
We're showing the world that you can run a campaign without being dependent on powerful and wealthy special interests.
The American people are tired of working longer hours for lower wages and seeing almost all new income going to the top 1 percent.
It is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics. This is not just a campaign slogan   it s a reality for our country.
The average life expectancy for a woman in McDowell is 73. Just six hours away, it is 85 years. That's unacceptable and has got to change.
In America today, living in poverty means you are less likely to have access to a doctor, a dentist or a mental health care provider.
We have the highest childhood poverty rate of any major country on earth with almost 22 percent of American children living in poverty.
In the United States today, the wealthiest country in the history of the world, 47 million Americans are living in poverty.
There is nothing I would like more than to take on and defeat Donald Trump, someone who must never become president of this country.
It is no mystery why Monsanto fights against our right to know about GMOs in food   business is booming for this huge chemical company.
At a time when women workers earn 79 cents for every dollar a man earns, we need pay equity in our country.
Increasing the min. wage to $15 an hour would reduce spending on food stamps, public housing and other programs by over $7.6 billion a year.
If the minimum wage had kept up with productivity and inflation since 1968, it would be more than $26 an hour today.
Raising the retirement age to 70 would reduce lifetime Social Security benefits by about 15% and do little to strengthen Social Security.
Social Security has a surplus of more than $2.8 trillion and can pay every single benefit owed to every eligible American for 18 years.
Indiana   it's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and family and go out and vote. Polls close at 6 PM.
We need to increase the wages of more than 53 million American workers by raising the minimum wage from a starvation wage to $15 an hour.
What this campaign is showing is that when people stand together we can take on the billionaire class and the candidates they fund.
We live in the richest country on earth, but that means nothing to working families when much of that wealth is controlled by so few.
Esta es la verdad: la situaci n actual es p sima. Necesitamos un cambio transformador. Y no lo vamos a obtener dando pasos marginales.
I want to make banking boring again. It shouldn't be about making as much profit as possible by gambling on esoteric financial products.
I want Wall Street to help kids in this country attend public colleges and universities tuition-free with a Wall Street speculation tax.
Banking should be about providing affordable loans to Americans who need to purchase homes and cars, not reckless gambling on Wall Street.
We must say to corporate America loud and clear: you can t continue sending our jobs to China while millions are looking for work.
Here's the reality: the status quo is not enough. We need real change. And we're not gonna get that by tinkering at the margins.
The working class of this country deserves to earn decent wages, decent benefits and not see their jobs go to low-wage countries. #MayDay
Fair wages and workers rights are at the heart of a just and moral economy, and something we should all strive for every day. Happy #MayDay.
People shouldn't go without medication just because their elected officials aren t willing to stand up to the drug industry lobby.
Last year, 35 million Americans could not get their prescriptions filled because they could not afford it.
There is something profoundly wrong when 58 percent of all new income since the Wall Street crash has gone to the top 1 percent.
We are sending a clear message to the billionaire class: you can t continue to get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry.
Corporate greed is a scourge on this country, and it will take all of us standing up for justice in order to rein it in.
The question you ve gotta ask yourselves at the polls is: are you gonna stand with the sick and the poor or Big Pharma and Wall Street?
Instead of giving tax breaks to millionaires, we are going to create an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1 percent.
The Democratic Party has gotta make it clear that they will fight for automatic voter registration for everyone over 18.
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires.
Right now a billionaire pays the same amount of money into Social Security as someone who makes $118,500 a year. Time for a change.
Today we remember those we've lost to unsafe working conditions, and recommit to creating safe workplaces and empowering unions. #IWMD16
29 million Americans still have no health insurance. A Medicare-for-all system would guarantee health care as a right.
We need a progressive income tax so we don t have a situation where billionaires end up paying an effective tax rate lower than nurses.
This is a movement made of millions of people. This is not about Bernie Sanders, Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump. This is about you.
This election is not just about electing a president. Far more significantly, it is about transforming America.
In the last few decades there's been a massive redistribution of wealth in the U.S. Unfortunately, it has gone in the wrong direction.
We need to provide a path to citizenship for the millions of undocumented immigrants in our country and we need to keep families together.
We need to end minimum sentencing. Too many lives have been destroyed for non-violent crimes.
In many states, it is legal to fire someone for being gay or to deny someone housing for being transgender. That must change.
A college degree is the new high school diploma. An education should be available to all regardless of anyone s economic situation.
PA, RI, CT, MD and DE: you still have time to go vote! Text FIND to 82623 for your voting location and go vote for Bernie.
It's immoral and unjust to leave tens of millions of Americans without health care. Any health care plan must address that issue.
Maryland, Connecticut, Delaware, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island   today we vote. Get to your voting location and join history in the making.
I don t believe it is a radical idea to say that someone who works 40 hours a week should not be living in poverty.
When you're sick, you shouldn't have to worry about finding the money to go to a doctor.
Loudly and clearly, we must tell the Republicans: no, we will not cut Social Security benefits for seniors and disabled veterans.
Unbelievably, and grotesquely, the top one-tenth of 1 percent owns nearly as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
Diplomacy and doing everything we can to avoid a war is not weakness. It is intelligence. It is strength.
In 2015, McDonald's CEO saw his pay go up from $1.68 million to nearly $8 million. Yet 15 bucks an hour is too radical for his employees.
Today, the CEOs of the largest corporations in America make over 300 times what typical workers earn. That is not only wrong, it is immoral.
Money is not free speech. Elections should not be auctions. In a democracy, we should have the right to elect people based on their ideas.
At a time when so few have so much, and so many have so little, we must reject the foundations of this economy as immoral and unsustainable.
The working class of this country deserves to earn decent wages, decent benefits, and not see their jobs go to low-wage countries.
Our youth are no longer satisfied with corrupt and broken politics and an economy of stark inequality and injustice.
Corporate greed is a scourge on this country, and it will take all of us standing up for justice in order to rein it in.
We need real credit score reform to make the banking and credit industries work for borrowers and not just lenders.
Public college and university education in America must be tuition-free. We could do it 50 years ago, why the hell can't we do it today?
The sad reality is nearly 4 million American seniors may skip dinner tonight because they do not have enough money to buy food today.
Housing that is built with government subsidies should remain affordable permanently, not just 10 or 15 years.
On any given night, almost 565,000 people are homeless in the United States. This is a national disgrace.
We should recognize DREAMers for who they are   American kids who deserve the right to legally be in the country they know as home.
Signing the Paris climate deal is an important step but not enough. We must take bold action to fight climate change and enact a carbon tax.
Happy #EarthDay! Let's work together to leave a healthy, livable planet for all of our kids and grandchildren.
Happy Passover to my sisters and brothers who celebrate!
We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. We can create a nation where health care is a right for all Americans.
Sec. Clinton and all candidates should not only commit to the idea of universal health care coverage, but show us a plan to get there.
The greed of the fossil fuel industry is literally destroying our planet and whether they like it or not we are going to stop that greed.
I condemn Principal LaRaviere s reassignment and call on Democrats around the country to stand up against Mayor Emanuel s pettiness.
The only explanation for Chicago Principal Troy LaRaviere's removal appears to be Rahm Emanuel s unhealthy obsession with taking revenge.
We pay by far the highest price in the world for prescription drugs. That's just a fact. We are getting ripped off left and right.
Today we have cities and states across America who have made their minimum wage $15 an hour. We must make that national.
Climate change is a planetary crisis. We have to act now, and we have to act boldly.
I want to see our country have one of the highest voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest.
We must overturn Citizens United if we are serious about maintaining the foundations of American democracy.
Nebraska took a big step in the right direction by abolishing civil forfeiture yesterday. I hope other states will begin to follow suit.
What we need today is a candidate who has the track record, the agenda and the guts to stand up to the billionaire class.
In the wealthiest country in the history of the world we can create an economy where nobody who works 40 hours a week lives in poverty.
Thank you to all those who came out tonight in New York! Onward to five more states voting next week.
One year after Freddie Gray was killed we still have no justice. The chants have only grown louder. It's time we ended police brutality.
New York: you vote today. The right to vote is at the heart of freedom and equality in America. Make your voice heard. #PrimaryDay
Nueva York    Es tu turno de votar por nuestro movimiento! Lleva a tu familia y amigos a votar. Las casillas cierran a las 9 PM.
New York   It's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and family and go out and vote. Polls close at 9 PM.
These attacks continue a cycle of violence that must come to an end and those responsible must face justice.
I condemn the horrific terrorist attack in Jerusalem today. I send my deepest condolences to all of those wounded and their families.
Los actos de amor del Papa Francisco deben inspirar a los estadounidenses a escuchar su llamado y recibir de brazos abiertos a refugiados.
What you'll find in my tax returns is that I made less in one year as a U.S. Senator than Sec. Clinton did in one speech to Wall Street.
Despu s de nuestra visita al Vaticano, el Papa Francisco viaj  a Lesbos y nos mostr  a todos el significado de la compasi n.
Let us stand in solidarity with the students at Columbia and NYU for demanding their schools divest from fossil fuels. #KeepItInTheGround
The president s immigration actions are good first steps. The Supreme Court should allow DAPA to move forward. #FightForFamilies
How does it happen that we are spending trillions of dollars fighting a war in Iraq but our water system in Flint is crumbling?
Thank you @SallyKohn for your support!
We express our condolences and solidarity with the people of Ecuador and Japan as they recover from these devastating earthquakes.
It is extremely sad that the United States, one of the oldest democracies, has one of the lowest voter turnouts of any major country.
Medicare for all means no more copays, no more deductibles and no more fighting with insurance companies when they fail to pay for charges.
Pope Francis' acts of love should inspire us as Americans and we should heed his call to welcome refugees with open arms.
After we left the Vatican this morning, Pope Francis visited Lesbos and showed us all what compassion looks like.
Taking care of our veterans is a cost of war, and we must firmly reject the latest efforts to cut benefits for veterans. #DefendTheGIBill
Health care costs are out of control. Medicare for all will go a long way toward getting health care spending under control.
Innovation and business success should be rewarded. But greed for the sake of greed is not something that public policy should support.
If we wake up the American people, if we stand up and fight back, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish. New York, vote on April 19!
Millions of people must stand up, fight back and create a government that works for all of us. New York   go vote on Tuesday. Thank you.
Campaign money from maxed-out wealthy contributors: Hillary Clinton   51% Bernie Sanders   3%
Bernie Sanders outperforms Hillary Clinton in every major poll when tested against Donald Trump. Now that's electability.
Public colleges and universities tuition free? Damn right.
#AskAboutAbortion this segment, please.
We should be concerned when innocents are killed anywhere in the world. That includes BOTH Israel and Palestine, not just one or the other.
If we are going to achieve peace, we are going to have to treat the Palestinian people with respect and dignity. #DemDebate
Q: Do you support a tax on carbon?  Hillary Clinton:  I think we did a great deal to help the Libyan people.   @HillaryClinton   Just wanted that one on the record
Gas lobbyists aren't bundling money for @HillaryClinton to get her on their side. They donate to her because she is already on their side.
Hillary Clinton's plan to address climate change does not go far enough. We need bold changes, not just small steps. #DemDebate
Hillary Clinton supports fracking. Bernie does not. #DemDebate
You can either be for a $15 an hour federal minimum wage or against it. It can t be both, @HillaryClinton. #DemDebate
Millions of people are standing up, @HillaryClinton. $12 is not enough.  Let's raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour. #DemDebate
Bernie has released all of the speeches he gave to Wall Street. There were none. Hillary s been  looking into it  for 70 days. #DemDebate
If there's nothing bad in Hillary Clinton's Wall Street speeches, why not just #ReleaseTheTranscripts? #DemDebate
When millions of Americans lost their jobs because of Wall Street s greed, Hillary Clinton sided with Wall Street and bailed them out.
You can t stand and fight for working families and the middle class if you're dependent upon big-money interests. #DemDebate
People do not like the idea that our politicians have become dependent on billionaires and super PACs for money. Plain and simple.
We are the only advanced economy that doesn t guarantee its workers some form of paid family leave, paid sick leave or paid vacation time.
This campaign is about building on these successes so that everyone in this country can enjoy the dignity of a living wage. #FightFor15
We re making progress in Seattle, Los Angeles, San Francisco, California, New York and Oregon.
But a grassroots movement led by millions of working people refused to take  no  for an answer.
Not too long ago, the establishment told us that a $15 minimum wage was unrealistic or  pie-in-the-sky. 
I applaud the workers who are today demanding $15 an hour and a union. #FightFor15
Democratic socialism means that we create a government that works for all of us, not just powerful special interests.
Dr. Song's comment was inappropriate and insensitive. There's no room for language like that in our political discourse.
Most Americans can pay lower taxes if hedge fund managers who make billions manipulating the marketplace pay the taxes they should.
Jane and I left New York City when we were kids and it's great to be back! - Bernie #NewYorkForBernie
 The cause is right and the time is NOW.  - @NinaTurner #NewYorkforBernie
Thank you to those on strike today. You're standing up for justice not just for Verizon workers but for millions who don t have a union.
What I care about is that they stop destroying the jobs of their employees and start investing in cities like Buffalo and Baltimore.
Today three out of the four largest banks in this country are larger than when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail.
How does it happen that every major country on earth guarantees health care to all of their people as a right except the United States?
We need to adopt fair trade policies which not only raise wages in this country, but lift living standards throughout the world.
Making women travel hundreds of miles, wait weeks for an appointment and face harassment at the clinic door is a national disgrace.
For the past 40 years, the extreme right-wing has made it more and more difficult for women to access abortion care. That is unacceptable.
I opposed the Keystone pipeline from the start because it was a no brainer. Evolving is not good enough. We need leadership.
African-American women earn just 60 cents for every dollar a white male earns. The figure for Latina women is just 55 cents. #EqualPayDay
The pay disparity is even worse for women of color who face a pay gulf, not a gap. #EqualPayDay
Why is it that women are going to work and earning 79 cents on the dollar compared to men? Shameful. We need pay equity. #EqualPayDay
Young people all over this country are demanding their voice be heard in determining the future of this country. That's democracy!
Americans understand that our gov't is dominated by big money. Glad to see people taking action to restore democracy. #DemocracySpring
We must overturn Citizens United if we are serious about maintaining the foundations of American democracy. #DemocracySpring
It s wrong to think we can frack our way out of the climate crisis. Natural gas isn t a bridge fuel,  it s a fossil fuel.
Right now, under the Federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is a schedule one drug alongside heroin. That's pretty crazy.
Corporations should not be making profits by imprisoning our sons and daughters. We must put an end to the private prison racket in America.
People should be rewarded for getting an education, not punished with student debt of $50,000, $100,000 or more.
Right now we have a fundamentally corrupt energy policy. It is rigged to boost the profits of big oil at the expense of average Americans.
I want to move to public funding of elections so anyone can run for office without having to beg for money from the wealthy and powerful.
Transitioning toward a completely clean energy system is possible and affordable, and will create millions of good jobs.
Climate change is an economic, public health, national security and environmental problem. It is every kind of issue at once.
As president, I'll ban fossil fuels lobbyists from working in the White House. Climate change skepticism has no place in the Oval Office.
It's clear that the war on drugs was a miserable failure that we must bring to an end.
We know that tough on crime policies have failed. Millions of lives have been destroyed and we now live in the most incarcerated nation.
Nowhere is the dearth of affordable housing more on display than in New York. We need to do more to address this housing crisis.
15 dollars an hour everywhere. #FamilyValuesIn5Words
We can t properly reform our broken criminal justice system without ending the death penalty.
Wyoming: today you caucus. Get to your caucus location by 9am. If there's a large turnout, we can win. Join history in the making. #WYCaucus
That's just a single issue where @HillaryClinton and I differ.
In my view, we need to repeal the 1996 welfare reform provisions and expand, not weaken, the social safety net.
In 2008, @HillaryClinton said that  welfare should not be an anti-poverty program.  I disagree.
This legislation has weakened the social safety net and increased extreme poverty. That is unacceptable.
This legislation gave Republican governors like Scott Walker the responsibility to provide a safety net for families in need.
In 1994, welfare provided a vital safety net to more than 14 million Americans. Today, it only helps 4.4 million.
Families LIVING IN POVERTY receiving cash benefits: 1996: 68% 2014: Only 23%
From 1996 to 2011, households living in EXTREME poverty increased 182% for African Americans; 132% for Hispanics; 109% for White Americans.
The number of children in extreme poverty has skyrocketed from 1.4 million to 3.5 million.
It established strict work requirements for receiving benefits and severely limited access to benefits for undocumented people.
Since this legislation was signed into law, families living in extreme poverty have more than doubled from 636,000 to 1.65 million.
It turns out that the welfare reform bill has been an absolute disaster.
Unfortunately, @HillaryClinton supported this bill calling it  a critical first step to reforming our nation s welfare system. 
I called that bill  an assault on the poor, women and children, minorities, and immigrants.  I believed that then and I believe that now.
It wasn't Governor Cuomo who had the idea to raise the minimum wage. It was the people telling him what to do. That's how change happens.
When Americans begin to stand up to Wall Street and the billionaire class, Congress is going to have to start paying attention.
The problems facing this country now are so serious, are so deep, that the same-old, same-old establishment politics ain't going to do it.
It is a national embarrassment that some American politicians refuse to recognize the reality of climate change.
Low-income communities will bear the most severe consequences of our nation's dependence on fossil fuels. We've gotta get our act together.
You re looking at the guy who s not just talking the talk when it comes to campaign finance   I am walking the walk.
As president, I would formally apologize for our country's deplorable practice of slavery.
As a father of four and a grandfather of seven, I care about leaving a healthy, livable planet for all of our kids and grandchildren.
Climate change is the single greatest threat facing our planet.
I don't go to unions and then leave to go to Wall Street fundraisers. Unions are my family. I have worked with them for my entire life.
Millions of people are working incredible hours   some with two or three jobs   just trying to care for themselves and their families.
What Republicans are saying, very loudly and clearly, is that no woman in this country, has the right to control her own body. I disagree.
The Affordable Care Act, which I voted for and helped write, is a step forward for this country. But we must build on it and go further.
29 million Americans have no health insurance and even more are underinsured with high co-payments and deductibles. That's an embarrassment.
Democratic socialism means that we must reform a political system in America today, which is not only grossly unfair but also corrupt.
We must fundamentally re-write our trade policies and rebuild factories that were closed as a result of bad trade deals.
Our job cannot be to cut Social Security. Our job must be to expand it so that every American can retire with dignity and respect.
We can live in a nation where every person, no matter their sexual orientation, realizes the full promise of equality.
New parents shouldn't be forced to go back to work immediately because they can't afford to stay home to take care of their baby.
Corporate greed needs to end. They're taking advantage of the benefits of America, yet refuse to accept their responsibilities as Americans.
Congratulations to the UConn Huskies for winning another women's NCAA National Basketball Championship.
Wisconsin   It's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and family and go out and vote. Polls close at 8 PM.
Congratulations to the Villanova Wildcats for winning the men's NCAA National Basketball Championship.
Wisconsin   today we have an opportunity to move our revolution forward. Grab a friend or family member and vote for real change. #WIPrimary
Martin Luther King, Jr. was one of the great leaders of our history. We must continue his fight for civil rights and racial justice.
We need to federally fund and require body cameras for law enforcement officers to make it easier to hold them accountable.
Not too long ago, they told us that a $15 min wage was unrealistic. Some said it was  pie-in-the-sky.  NY and CA are just the tipping point.
Today, the Supreme Court helped ensure the equality of one person, one vote. Now, we must continue to fight all forms of voter suppression.
We need a new approach to trade in this country   one that benefits working families and not just the CEOs of multinational corporations.
The reason that our campaign is doing well is that we are doing something unusual in American politics: we are telling the truth.
Let me be clear: I have consistently opposed offshore drilling in the Arctic, in the Gulf and in the Atlantic.
My climate plan will cut U.S. carbon pollution 40 percent by 2030 and over 80 percent by 2050, in part by putting a tax on carbon pollution.
I recognize it's a bold peice of legislation. But I do not believe it is pie-in-the-sky to leave this planet habitable to our grandchildren.
I am proud to have introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation in the history of the United States Senate.
The Keystone Pipeline would transport some of the dirtiest fuel on this planet. I ve led the opposition to it from the beginning.
Climate change is already having devastating effects across the world. It s too late for incremental change. We must act boldly.
A strong and growing trade-union movement not only protects its own members but drives up wages for all Americans.
As president, I will increase funding for education and demand that profitable corporations start paying their fair share of taxes.
Walker has provided huge tax breaks for corporations while making the largest cuts to education in Wisconsin history. He's got it backwards.
I say to Scott Walker: if you are afraid of fair and open elections, get out of politics and get another job.
Under Gov. Walker, we are seeing massive efforts to make it harder for people to vote in Wisconsin. Absolutely wrong and unacceptable.
In 1980, Congress required credit unions to cap interest rates at 15 percent. It's time to extend this cap to every lender in America.
We have got to stop credit card companies from ripping off the American people by charging sky-high interest rates of 20 or 30 percent.
Change cannot take place without political participation.
I believe firmly that we can accomplish great things in this country if millions of Americans begin to stand up and fight for real change.
Campaign money bundled by fossil fuel lobbyists:   $1.46 million for @HillaryClinton    $0 for @BernieSanders
We have got to end the embargo against Cuba. Fifty years of Cold War is enough.
I've been criticized for my big ideas. You know what wasn't too pie-in-the-sky for my opponent? $1.7 trillion to invade Iraq.
Thank you to everyone who contributed to our campaign in March. You are our political revolution.
I will not accept children in this country sleeping out on the streets. We must end childhood poverty. #BernieInTheBronx
It is wrong that women are paid less than men for doing the same work. We've gotta move forward and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act into law.
Under my administration, Wall Street CEOs will no longer receive a get-out-of jail free card. Big bankers will not be too big to jail.
We can't have a safe & sound financial system if the same agencies rating Wall Street's products are making their profits from Wall Street.
My opponent may not think the American people are prepared to stand up to the insurance companies or the drug companies. I think they are.
One in five people can't afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe. Elderly people are cutting pills in half for goodness' sake.
This country can no longer afford to tolerate the culture of fraud and corruption on Wall Street.
I've been criticized for my big ideas. You know what wasn't too pie-in-the-sky for my opponent? $700 billion to bailout Wall Street in 2008.
I want children to know that if they study hard, no matter what the income of their families, they will be able to get a college education.
I don't believe we should be punishing millions of people with outrageous levels of student debt. That shortsighted path forward must end.
Our movement is about creating an America that ensures nobody working 40 hours a week has to live in poverty.
Too many Americans have seen their lives destroyed because they have criminal records as a result of marijuana use.
We need new thinking to address the enormous crises facing our country. It is too late for establishment policies, politics and economics.
It's time for Republicans to stop obstructing efforts to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels and toward energy efficiency.
The vast majority of U.S. students are already working to put themselves through school. The kids are alright.
War has got to be the last recourse, not the first.
We need a grassroots movement to tell the Koch brothers and the billionaire class that they won't be able to continue to buy elections.
A job must lift workers out of poverty, not keep them in it. The current federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage.
We need police reform so that young people can walk down the street without having to worry about if they're going to be harassed or shot.
Since I have been an elected official, I have used my influence to stand with those who have no power. That's what I do.
We may have Wall Street and our opponent's super PACs against us but we are going to win because our message is resonating with the people.
The sad reality is that across the globe, the health of communities is consistently ignored in favor of the profits of corporate polluters.
We live at a time when most Americans have less than $10,000 in savings and millions of working adults struggle to retire in dignity.
We need to ensure access to quality affordable childcare for working families, especially for parents who work non-traditional hours.
Ill-conceived military decisions, such as the invasion of Iraq, can wreak far-reaching devastation and destabilize regions for decades.
Voter ID laws, discriminatory drawing of Congressional districts and restricting same-day registration are all forms of voter suppression.
We are grieving today for the families affected by the deplorable attack in Lahore. No one should ever fear taking their children to a park.
Wishing a happy Easter from the Sanders family to all those who celebrate!
Turnout is huge across Washington! Stay in line and make sure your voice is heard. #WAcaucus
Today we are going to tell the world we demand a government that represents all of us, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
We need to federally fund and require body cameras for law enforcement officers to make it easier to hold them accountable.
Violence and brutality, particularly at the hands of the police, is unacceptable and must not be tolerated.
We need to reform our criminal justice system so that we don't continue to see such a grotesque disparity in sentencing for people of color.
For the last 40 years the great middle class of our country   once the envy of the world   has been disappearing.
We have more people in jail than any other country. Lives are destroyed as we spend $80 billion locking up fellow Americans.
A handful of people on Wall Street have extraordinary power. In 2008, their illegal behavior nearly destroyed the global economy.
Virtually every Republican candidate for president wants us to believe Social Security is in crisis and must be cut. They are dead wrong.
Millions of Americans lost their life savings after 2008, but Social Security was right there paying full benefits.
We need to re-enfranchise the more than 5 million Americans who have had their right to vote taken away by a felony conviction.
One reason it is so hard to vote in Arizona is because the Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights Act.  Voting should not be this difficult.
On Tuesday night, people waited in line for 5 hours to vote. We don't know how many didn't get to cast their ballots. This is unacceptable.
The system is rigged when the average person works longer hours for lower wages, and 58 percent of all new income goes to the top 1 percent.
Big pharma cannot continue to evade taxes while ripping off Americans who already pay the highest prescription drug prices in the world.
My plan: break up big banks, close tax loopholes and make them pay their fair share. Then we can expand health care and make college free.
As president, I will fight attempts to undercut Roe v. Wade. We must protect and expand a woman's right to abortion.
The goal of U.S. military policy must be to destroy ISIS, but to do it in a way that does not get U.S. troops involved in perpetual warfare.
As president, I will defend this nation but I will do it responsibly. I voted against the war in Iraq and that was the right vote.
No, we re not gonna deny coverage for contraception or any other procedure because an employer has a  moral  objection to it. #HandsOffMyBC
We are not going back to the days when women did not have full access to birth control. #HandsOffMyBC
Trump thinks we should not raise the minimum wage. He wants to give billions of dollars in tax breaks to the wealthy. I don't think so.
We need policies that bring us together and create a middle class that works for all of us rather than an economy that works for just a few.
If you're in Arizona, make sure to stay in line. Every vote counts.
It s a national disgrace that people have to wait hours to cast a vote in any election.
Utah   If you're in line, you have a right to caucus. Make your voice heard. Stay in line and caucus for Bernie. Issues? Call 385-223-6954.
If you're in line to vote before 7 p.m. in Arizona, do not leave! You have the right to vote. Any issues or concerns? Call 512-938-8850.
I continue to stand by the President's calls for Congress to fully lift the failed embargo on Cuba. Fifty years of Cold War is enough.
It s important we not succumb to bigotry. We are fighting a terrorist organization killing innocent people. We are not fighting a religion.
Arizona, Idaho y Utah   Lleg  el turno de ustedes para votar por nuestro movimiento. Vayan con sus familiares y amigos a votar.
Arizona, Utah and Idaho   It's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and family and go out and vote.
We offer our deepest condolences to the families who lost loved ones in this barbaric attack and to the people of Brussels.
Our nation has always been a refuge for the oppressed. We need to take steps to protect families seeking refuge here, not cast them out.
Universal health care is an idea that has been supported by Democratic presidents going back to Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman.
It's time to shut the revolving door between Wall Street and the government. Wall Street will not be represented in my administration.
I believe Israel, Palestine and the international community can, must and will rise to do what needs to be done to achieve a lasting peace.
Despite what the media tells you, politics is not a soap opera. Politics is about coming together to improve the lives of all. #ForThePeople
As president, I will appoint justices to the Supreme Court who understand the importance of preserving Roe v. Wade.
When we come together and don t allow people to divide us, we can create an economy that works for all and not just the top 1 percent.
The recklessness, greed and illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this country into the worst economic downturn in modern history.
We cannot and we should not even be talking about sweeping up millions of men, women, and children and throwing them out of the country.
In a democratic society, politics should not be treated like a baseball game or a soap opera. We need discussion about serious issues.
Together, we can move to a foreign policy rooted in sound judgment that will move us away from perpetual warfare.
Americans need a president who will think about their future 10, 15, 20 years down the line   someone with judgment.
Unfortunately, what I predicted at the time about the destabilization of the region came true.
In 2003, I voted against the War in Iraq. It was a hard vote to cast when so many were calling for war.
That starts with defending veterans  benefits from attempts to cut them in our Congress.
In the wake of that war, we must never forget the incredible sacrifices made by our veterans.
That s money that could have been spent on rebuilding America s schools, roads, bridges and water systems.
When the last benefits are calculated, that war will have cost the United States taxpayers several trillion dollars.
We invaded Iraq 13 years ago today. We must ask ourselves: are we more or less safe because of that war?
I talked to a young man serving in the US military and while he was serving his country, his wife was deported. That's beyond comprehension.
Wall Street is terrified because we are running a campaign that does not support their agenda. We represent working families. #ByThePeople
This campaign is a political revolution #ByThePeople, and we must make sure that health care is a right, not a privilege.
No one said a political revolution would be easy. We're up against a billionaire class determined to see us lose. #ByThePeople
YOU are the reason we have done so well against the political establishment and its super PACs. And you're how Bernie will win. #ByThePeople
Despite growing poverty among seniors, Republicans want more austerity for the elderly and more tax breaks for the rich.
Together we're going to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision which has allowed millionaires to buy politicians.
The idea that a mother is living here and her children are living on the other side of a nation's border is wrong and immoral.
Raids are not the answer. We cannot continue to employ inhumane tactics involving rounding up and deporting thousands of immigrant families.
As families across this country continue to struggle to make ends meet, we must fight for fair wages for all.
I'm running for president because it is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics. We need a political revolution.
When we all stand together for justice, we win. When working families stand together, we win. #OfThePeople
Our campaign is being called the most serious threat to establishment politics in a generation. They ain t seen nothing yet. #OfThePeople
This campaign is gaining momentum because we are listening to the pain #OfThePeople.  They want real change!
We can live in a nation where if you work 40 hours a week, you know that your child is able to go to college regardless of your income.
Vote for the political revolution. #GetMillennialsToVoteIn5Words
Sec. Clinton may disagree with me, but I don t think it s a great idea for taxpayers to subsidize large corporations who move jobs abroad.
Boeing gets 40 percent of the money discharged by the Export-Import Bank. And let me tell you, Boeing ain't exactly a small business.
Today, you've got child care workers making minimum wage. That is crazy. We should value our child care workers more than that.
We can have differences about when to go to war, but there should be no debate about the benefits our veterans have earned. #DefendTheGIBill
And while we don't guarantee health care to all, we do outspend all other countries on the planet on medical spending.
Sec. Clinton says she got to travel the world. Did she happen to notice that every major country guarantees health care to all their people?
A grassroots movement by the numbers:   Nearly 2 million donors   More than 5.7 million contributions   Average contribution: $27
I don't take corporate PAC money, and if, by some accident, some company sent us money, we would send it back absolutely.
We cannot jail our way out of health problems like drug addiction or social and economic problems like poverty.
Every public college and university in this country should be tuition-free. I know my opponent thinks it s a radical idea, I don t.
How is it that tens of thousands of bright young people today are unable to go to college because they can t afford it? That's unacceptable.
I believe that morally and ethically we do not have a right to turn our backs on veterans who are sleeping out on the street.
I want to end the sad reality of having more people in jail than any other country. I'd rather we have the best educated population.
There needs to be a path back from prison. We need real education and real skills training for the incarcerated.
Sec. Clinton has a super PAC raising huge amounts of money from Wall Street and the fossil fuel industry. I am doing it a different way.
How did we have so much money to go to war in Iraq but somehow we don't have enough to rebuild the pipes in Flint? #FlintWaterCrisis
Here s a radical idea: We're going to create an economy that works for working families, not just the billionaires!
If patriotism means anything, it means that we do not turn our backs on those veterans who have who defended us.
If you're a kid caught with marijuana, you get a record. If you're an exec on Wall St. that destroyed the economy, you get off scot-free.
I don t believe you can take on climate change effectively while taking money from those who would profit off the destruction of the planet.
The United States is the only developed nation in the world without guaranteed, paid parental leave. We must guarantee these benefits.
We need trade agreements that protect and benefit working families, not just the CEOs of large corporations.
People do not like the idea that our politicians have become dependent on billionaires and super PACs for money. We can change this system.
The test of a great nation is not how many wars it can engage in, but how it can resolve international conflicts in a peaceful manner.
The Koch brothers and their billionaire allies don t just want to cut Social Security, they want to eliminate Social Security.
Between our government s unwillingness to negotiate prices and its failure to fight fraud, it s no wonder drug prices are out of control.
Families are struggling to put bread on the table and take care of their basic needs. America needs a political revolution.
Our disastrous trade policies for the past 30 or 40 years have had a horrendous impact on the lives of millions of working Americans.
The greed of the billionaire class is destroying this country and whether they like it or not we are going to stop that greed.
Last chance to head to the polls! Head out the door and text VOTE to 82623 for your polling location. Go vote now. #PrimaryDay
It's not too late to get out and vote for Bernie! Text VOTE to 82623 to find your polling location and head over right now. #PrimaryDay
Ohio, Illinois, North Carolina, Missouri and Florida   It's your turn to vote for our political revolution. Grab your friends and go vote.
If men were giving birth to babies, there would not be a lot of discussion regarding the right to choose.
Sisters and brothers in Ohio, Illinois, North Carolina, Missouri and Florida: make your voice heard today. Go vote. #VoteTogether
Locking up addicts is not going to solve the problem. Substance abuse and addiction are health issues not criminal issues.
I don't have a super PAC and I don't travel the country begging millionaires to contribute to my campaign. This is a grassroots campaign.
This campaign is proving that you can run for office without taking money from corporate America and special interests. #GrassrootsMovement
Millions of Americans who want to join unions are unable to do so because of the coercive and often illegal behavior of their employers.
When we talk about war, we must talk about the 500,000 men and women who came home with PTSD, and traumatic brain injury.
America needs a president who will stand up to the fossil fuel industry and tell them their profits are not more important than the planet.
With so much violence already in the world, I just don't think the state itself should be killing people. I'm against capital punishment.
When we talk about education, we should talk about the great teachers in this country and make sure they get a good wage. #DemTownHall
We're gonna raise our minimum wage to a living wage so that nobody who works 40 hours a week in America is living in poverty. #DemTownHall
Espero que el se or Trump le diga a sus seguidores que la violencia no es aceptable en el proceso democr tico. #DemTownHall
Like any other public official, when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable. #DemTownHall
Violence is not acceptable in the American political process. We should condemn violence not encourage it. #DemTownhall
The American people don t need a president who says the right things in a stump speech. They need a president who is with them every day.
Today in the United States the top 1 percent earns more income than the bottom 50 percent. Does that make sense?
We should be investing in small businesses and worker-owned enterprises that want to create jobs in the United States of America.
I have spent my career fighting for something that I consider to be a human right. That human right is health care.
The United States must join the rest of the industrialized world and provide health care as a right to every man, woman and child.
We cannot be the only major country on earth which does not guarantee paid vacation time and paid sick time.
Effort under way right now by @hillaryclinton and party allies to steal Polk County Iowa conv. election Bernie won earlier today.
We win when people come together. We win when we reject division.
Every veteran who defends this nation must get the quality health care and benefits they have earned and receive the respect they deserve.
I'm asking young people to be leaders in this country. Help us create a nation where every person realizes their full promise of equality.
I want to thank Rahm Emanuel for not endorsing me. I don t want the endorsement of a mayor shutting down schools and firing teachers.
We do things a little different in this campaign: We bring people TOGETHER. #BernieInIL
The failure to prosecute the crooks on Wall Street for their illegal behavior is a clear indictment of our broken criminal justice system.
If elected, I won't send the TPP to Congress and will continue to fight efforts to pass it. I urge @HillaryClinton to join me.
As president, I will govern based on principle not poll numbers. Every day I will fight for the public interest not the corporate interests.
I don't give speeches to Wall Street for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Unlike Sec. Clinton, I have nothing to release.
If we are going to rebuild the crumbling middle class we need a stronger trade union movement, not a weaker one.
The politics of division has no place in our country. Trump should take responsibility for addressing his supporters' violent actions.
We must move aggressively toward energy efficiency and the development of sustainable energy sources.
The recklessness, greed and illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this country into the worst economic downturn in modern history.
We are increasingly living in an oligarchy where big money is buying politicians. We must overturn Citizens United before it s too late.
No president will be able to address the problems that we face unless there is a mass movement, a political revolution in this country.
It's unacceptable to ask working-class Americans to work until they are 68-70 years old before qualifying for full Social Security benefits.
Real change takes place when people stand up and say  enough is enough,  and when we create a political revolution from the ground up.
The message we are sending to the billionaire class is you cannot continue to get huge tax breaks while children in America go hungry.
I hope one day Republicans can overcome the needs of their campaign contributors and worry instead about the planet they're leaving behind.
This campaign is not a billionaire-funded campaign. It is a people s campaign.
We have got to tell corporate America they cannot continue to abandon workers in the U.S. We've lost 60,000 factories since 2001.
Bernie vot  contra la guerra de Irak y cambiar el r gimen en Libia porque tem a lo que suceder a despu s. Desafortunadamente,  l tuvo raz n.
Sec. Clinton is arguing that the U.S. should continue to be the only major country that doesn't guarantee health care to all people.
Only one candidate has a plan to get to universal health care coverage. How would @HillaryClinton get there? #UnivisionDebate
Why does @HillaryClinton think it's okay for Trump's kids to go to elementary, middle, and high schools for free, but not colleges?
Bernie voted against the Iraq War and regime change in Libya because he feared what would happen the day after. Unfortunately, he was right.
El director de Goldman Sachs no me dio $250,000; al contrario, dijo que soy un peligro. Y tiene raz n   soy un peligro para Wall Street.
The head of Goldman Sachs didn t give Bernie $225,000 for a speech. He said Bernie would be dangerous for Wall Street. And he s right.
There is nobody in the United States Congress who has taken on the Koch Brothers more than Bernie Sanders. #UnivisionDebate
