My Fellow Americans: I come before you tonight as a candidate for the Vice Presidency and as a man whose honesty and integrity has been questioned. Now, the usual political thing to do when charges are made against you is to either ignore them or to deny them without giving details. I believe we've had enough of that in the United States, particularly with the present Administration in Washington, D.C. To me the office of the Vice Presidency of the United States is a great office, and I feel that the people have got to have confidence in the integrity of the men who run for that office and who might obtain it. I have a theory, too, that the best and only answer to a smear or to an honest misunderstanding of the facts is to tell the truth. And that's why I am here tonight. I want to tell you my side of the case. I'm sure that you have read the charge, and you've heard it, that I, Senator Nixon, took $18,000 from a group of my supporters. Now, was that wrong? And let me say that it was wrong. I am saying it, incidentally, that it was wrong, just not illegal, because it isn't a question of whether it was legal or illegal, that isn't enough. The question is, was it morally wrong? I say that it was morally wrong -- if any of that $18,000 went to Senator Nixon, for my personal use. I say that it was morally wrong if it was secretly given, and secretly handled. And I say that it was morally wrong if any of the contributors got special favors for the contributions that they made. And now to answer those questions let me say this: not one cent of the $18,000 or any other money of that type ever went to me for my personal use. Every penny of it was used to pay for political expenses that I did not think should be charged to the taxpayers of the United States. It was not a secret fund. As a matter of fact, when I was on "Meet the Press"-- some of you may have seen it last Sunday -- Peter Edson came up to me after the program, and he said, "Dick, what about this fund we hear about?" And I said, "Well, there is no secret about it. Go out and see Dana Smith who was the administrator of the fund." And I gave him [Edson] his [Smith's] address. And I said you will find that the purpose of the fund simply was to defray political expenses that I did not feel should be charged to the Government. And third, let me point out -- and I want to make this particularly clear -- that no contributor to this fund, no contributor to any of my campaigns, has ever received any consideration that he would not have received as an ordinary constituent. I just don't believe in that, and I can say that never, while I have been in the Senate of the United States, as far as the people that contributed to this fund are concerned, have I made a telephone call for them to an agency, or have I gone down to an agency on their behalf. And the records will show that, the records which are in the hands of the administration. Well, then, some of you will say, and rightly, "Well, what did you use the fund for, Senator? Why did you have to have it?" Let me tell you in just a word how a Senate office operates. First of all, a Senator gets $15,000 a year in salary. He gets enough money to pay for one trip a year, a round trip, that is, for himself, and his family between his home and Washington, D.C. And then he gets an allowance to handle the people that work in his office to handle his mail. And the allowance for my State of California, is enough to hire 13 people. And let me say, incidentally, that that allowance is not paid to the Senator. It is paid directly to the individuals that the Senator puts on his pay roll. But all of these people and all of these allowances are for strictly official business; business, for example, when a constituent writes in and wants you to go down to the Veteran's Administration and get some information about his GI policy -- items of that type, for example. But there are other expenses that are not covered by the Government. And I think I can best discuss those expenses by asking you some questions. Do you think that when I or any other senator makes a political speech, has it printed, should charge the printing of that speech and the mailing of that speech to the taxpayers? Do you think, for example, when I or any other Senator makes a trip to his home State to make a purely political speech that the cost of that trip should be charged to the taxpayers? Do you think when a Senator makes political broadcasts or political television broadcasts, radio or television, that the expense of those broadcasts should be charged to the taxpayers? Well I know what your answer is. It's the same answer that audiences give me whenever I discuss this particular problem: The answer is no. The taxpayers shouldn't be required to finance items which are not official business but which are primarily political business. Well, then the question arises, you say, "Well, how do you pay for these and how can you do it legally?" And there are several ways that it can be done, incidentally, and it is done legally in the United States Senate and in the Congress. The first way is to be a rich man. I don't happen to be a rich man, so I couldn't use that one. Another way that is used is to put your wife on the pay roll. Let me say, incidentally, that my opponent, my opposite number for the Vice Presidency on the Democratic ticket, does have his wife on the pay roll and has had her on his pay roll for the past ten years. Now let me just say this: That's his business, and I'm not critical of him for doing that. You will have to pass judgment on that particular point. But I have never done that for this reason: I have found that there are so many deserving stenographers and secretaries in Washington that needed the work that I just didn't feel it was right to put my wife on the pay roll. My wife's sitting over here. She is a wonderful stenographer. She used to teach stenography and she used to teach shorthand in high school. That was when I met her. And I can tell you folks that she's worked many hours at night and many hours on Saturdays and Sundays in my office, and she's done a fine job, and I am proud to say tonight that in the six years I have been in the House and the Senate of the United States, Pat Nixon has never been on the Government pay roll. What are other ways that these finances can be taken care of? Some who are lawyers, and I happen to be a lawyer, continue to practice law, but I haven't been able to do that. I am so far away from California that I have been so busy with my senatorial work that I have not engaged in any legal practice, and, also, as far as law practice is concerned, it seemed to me that the relationship between an attorney and the client was so personal that you couldn't possibly represent a man as an attorney and then have an unbiased view when he presented his case to you in the event that he had one before Government. And so I felt that the best way to handle these necessary political expenses of getting my message to the American people and the speeches I made -- the speeches I had printed for the most part concerned this one message of exposing this Administration, the Communism in it, the corruption in it -- the only way that I could do that was to accept the aid which people in my home State of California, who contributed to my campaign and who continued to make these contributions after I was elected, were glad to make. And let me say I am proud of the fact that not one of them has ever asked me for a special favor. I am proud of the fact that not one of them has ever asked me to vote on a bill other than my own conscience would dictate. And I am proud of the fact that the taxpayers by subterfuge or otherwise have never paid one dime for expenses which I thought were political and shouldn't be charged to the taxpayers. Let me say, incidentally, that some of you may say, "Well, that is all right, Senator, that's your explanation, but have you got any proof?" And I'd like to tell you this evening that just an hour ago we received an independent audit of this entire fund. I suggested to Governor Sherman Adams, who is the chief of staff of the Dwight Eisenhower campaign, that an independent audit and legal report be obtained, and I have that audit in my hands. It's an audit made by the Price Waterhouse & Co. firm, and the legal opinion by Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher, lawyers in Los Angeles, the biggest law firm, and incidentally, one of the best ones in Los Angeles. I am proud to be able to report to you tonight that this audit and this legal opinion is being forwarded to General Eisenhower. And I'd like to read to you the opinion that was prepared by Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher, and based on all the pertinent laws and statutes, together with the audit report prepared by the certified public accountants:  "It is our conclusion that Senator Nixon did not obtain any financial gain from the collection and disbursement of the fund by Dana Smith; that Senator Nixon did not violate any federal or state law by reason of the operation of the fund; and that neither the portion of the fund paid by Dana Smith directly to third persons, nor the portion paid to Senator Nixon, to reimburse him for designated office expenses, constituted income to the Senator which was either reportable or taxable as income under applicable tax laws."  (signed)  Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher,  by Elmo H. Conley   Now that, my friends, is not Nixon speaking, but that's an independent audit which was requested, because I want the American people to know all the facts, and I am not afraid of having independent people go in and check the facts, and that is exactly what they did. But then I realized that there are still some who may say, and rightly so -- and let me say that I recognize that some will continue to smear regardless of what the truth may be -- but that there has been understandably, some honest misunderstanding on this matter, and there are some that will say, "Well, maybe you were able, Senator, to fake the thing. How can we believe what you say? After all, is there a possibility that maybe you got some sums in cash? Is there a possibility that you might have feathered your own nest?" And so now, that I am going to do -- and incidentally this is unprecedented in the history of American politics -- I am going at this time to give to this television and radio audience, a complete financial history, everything I've earned, everything I've spent, everything I own. And I want you to know the facts. I'll have to start early. I was born in 1913. Our family was one of modest circumstances, and most of my early life was spent in a store out in East Whittier. It was a grocery store, one of those family enterprises. The only reason we were able to make it go was because my mother and dad had five boys, and we all worked in the store. I worked my way through college, and, to a great extent, through law school. And then in 1940, probably the best thing that ever happened to me happened. I married Pat who is sitting over here. We had a rather difficult time after we were married, like so many of the young couples who may be listening to us. I practiced law. She continued to teach school. Then, in 1942, I went into the service. Let me say that my service record was not a particularly unusual one. I went to the South Pacific. I guess I'm entitled to a couple of battle stars. I got a couple of letters of commendation. But I was just there when the bombs were falling. And then I returned -- returned to the United States, and in 1946, I ran for the Congress. When we came out of the war -- Pat and I -- Pat during the war had worked as a stenographer, and in a bank, and as an economist for a Government agency -- and when we came out, the total of our savings, from both my law practice, her teaching and all the time I was in the war, the total for that entire period was just a little less than $10,000 -- every cent of that, incidentally, was in Government bonds. Well that's where we start, when I go into politics. Now, what have I earned since I went into politics? Well, here it is. I've jotted it down. Let me read the notes. First of all, I have had my salary as a Congressman and as a Senator. Second, I have received a total in this past six years of $1,600 from estates which were in my law firm at the time that I severed my connection with it. And, incidentally, as I said before, I have not engaged in any legal practice and have not accepted any fees from business that came into the firm after I went into politics. I have made an average of approximately $1,500 a year from nonpolitical speaking engagements and lectures. And then, fortunately, we have inherited little money. Pat sold her interest in her father's estate for $3,000, and I inherited $1,500 from my grandfather. We lived rather modestly. For four years we lived in an apartment in Parkfairfax, in Alexandria Virginia. The rent was $80.00 a month. And we saved for the time that we could buy a house. Now, that was what we took in. What did we do with this money? What do we have today to show for it? This will surprise you because it is so little, I suppose, as standards generally go of people in public life. First of all, we've got a house in Washington, which cost $41,000 and on which we owe $20,000. We have a house in Whittier, California which cost $13,000 and on which we owe $3,000. My folks are living there at the present time. I have just $4,000 in life insurance, plus my GI policy which I've never been able to convert, and which will run out in two years. I have no life insurance whatever on Pat. I have no life insurance on our two youngsters Tricia and Julie. I own a 1950 Oldsmobile car. We have our furniture. We have no stocks and bonds of any type. We have no interest of any kind, direct or indirect, in any business. Now, that's what we have. What do we owe? Well in addition to the mortgage, the $20,000 mortgage on the house in Washington, the $10,000 one on the house in Whittier, I owe $4500 to the Riggs Bank in Washington, D.C., with interest 4 and 1/2 percent. I owe $3,500 to my parents, and the interest on that loan, which I pay regularly, because it's a part of the savings they made through the years they were working so hard -- I pay regularly 4 percent interest. And then I have a $500 loan, which I have on my life insurance. Well, that's about it. That's what we have. And that's what we owe. It isn't very much. But Pat and I have the satisfaction that every dime that we've got is honestly ours. I should say this, that Pat doesn't have a mink coat. But she does have a respectable Republican cloth coat, and I always tell her she'd look good in anything. One other thing I probably should tell you, because if I don't they'll probably be saying this about me, too. We did get something, a gift, after the election. A man down in Texas heard Pat on the radio mention the fact that our two youngsters would like to have a dog. And believe it or not, the day before we left on this campaign trip we got a message from Union Station in Baltimore, saying they had a package for us. We went down to get it. You know what it was? It was a little cocker spaniel dog, in a crate that he had sent all the way from Texas, black and white, spotted, and our little girl Tricia, the six year old, named it Checkers. And you know, the kids, like all kids, love the dog, and I just want to say this, right now, that regardless of what they say about it, we're gonna keep it. It isn't easy to come before a nationwide audience and bare your life, as I've done. But I want to say some things before I conclude, that I think most of you will agree on. Mr. Mitchell, the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, made this statement that if a man couldn't afford to be in the United States Senate, he shouldn't run for the Senate. And I just want to make my position clear. I don't agree with Mr. Mitchell when he says that only a rich man should serve his Government in the United States Senate or in the Congress. I don't believe that represents the thinking of the Democratic Party, and I know that it doesn't represent the thinking of the Republican Party. I believe that it's fine that a man like Governor Stevenson, who inherited a fortune from his father, can run for President. But I also feel that it's essential in this country of ours that a man of modest means can also run for President, because, you know, remember Abraham Lincoln, you remember what he said: "God must have loved the common people -- he made so many of them." And now I'm going to suggest some courses of conduct. First of all, you have read in the papers about other funds, now, Mr. Stevenson apparently had a couple. One of them in which a group of business people paid and helped to supplement the salaries of State employees. Here is where the money went directly into their pockets, and I think that what Mr. Stevenson should do should be to come before the American people, as I have, give the names of the people that contributed to that fund, give the names of the people who put this money into their pockets at the same time that they were receiving money from their State government and see what favors, if any, they gave out for that. I don't condemn Mr. Stevenson for what he did, but until the facts are in there is a doubt that will be raised. And as far as Mr. Sparkman is concerned, I would suggest the same thing. He's had his wife on the pay roll. I don't condemn him for that, but I think that he should come before the American people and indicate what outside sources of income he has had. I would suggest that under the circumstances both Mr. Sparkman and Mr. Stevenson should come before the American people, as I have, and make a complete financial statement as to their financial history, and if they don't it will be an admission that they have something to hide. And I think you will agree with me -- because, folks, remember, a man that's to be President of the United States, a man that's to be Vice President of the United States, must have the confidence of all the people. And that's why I'm doing what I'm doing. And that's why I suggest that Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Sparkman, since they are under attack, should do what they're doing. Now let me say this: I know that this is not the last of the smears. In spite of my explanation tonight, other smears will be made. Others have been made in the past. And the purpose of the smears, I know, is this, to silence me, to make me let up. Well, they just don't know who they're dealing with. I'm going to tell you this: I remember in the dark days of the Hiss case some of the same columnists, some of the same radio commentators who are attacking me now and misrepresenting my position, were violently opposing me at the time I was after Alger Hiss. But I continued to fight because I knew I was right, and I can say to this great television and radio audience that I have no apologies to the American people for my part in putting Alger Hiss where he is today. And as far as this is concerned, I intend to continue to fight. Why do I feel so deeply? Why do I feel that in spite of the smears, the misunderstanding, the necessity for a man to come up here and bare his soul as I have? Why is it necessary for me to continue this fight? And I want to tell you why. Because, you see, I love my country. And I think my country is in danger. And I think the only man that can save America at this time is the man that's running for President, on my ticket -- Dwight Eisenhower. You say, "Why do I think it is in danger?" And I say, look at the record. Seven years of the Truman-Acheson Administration, and what's happened? Six hundred million people lost to Communists. And a war in Korea in which we have lost 117,000 American casualties, and I say to all of you that a policy that results in the loss of 600 million people to the Communists, and a war that cost us 117,000 American casualties isn't good enough for America. And I say that those in the State Department that made the mistakes which caused that war and which resulted in those losses should be kicked out of the State Department just as fast as we get them out of there. And let me say that I know Mr. Stevenson won't do that because he defends the Truman policy, and I know that Dwight Eisenhower will do that, and that he will give America the leadership that it needs. Take the problem of corruption. You've read about the mess in Washington. Mr. Stevenson can't clean it up because he was picked by the man, Truman, under whose Administration the mess was made. You wouldn't trust the man who made the mess to clean it up. That's Truman. And by the same token you can't trust the man who was picked by the man who made the mess to clean it up and that's Stevenson. And so I say, Eisenhower, who owes nothing to Truman, nothing to the big city bosses -- he is the man that can clean up the mess in Washington. Take Communism. I say that as far as that subject is concerned the danger is great to America. In the Hiss case they got the secrets which enabled them to break the American secret State Department code. They got secrets in the atomic bomb case which enabled them to get the secret of the atomic bomb five years before they would have gotten it by their own devices. And I say that any man who called the Alger Hiss case a red herring isn't fit to be President of the United States. I say that a man who, like Mr. Stevenson, has pooh-poohed and ridiculed the Communist threat in the United States -- he said that they are phantoms among ourselves. He has accused us that have attempted to expose the Communists, of looking for Communists in the Bureau of Fisheries and Wildlife. I say that a man who says that isn't qualified to be President of the United States. And I say that the only man who can lead us in this fight to rid the Government of both those who are Communists and those who have corrupted this Government is Eisenhower, because Eisenhower, you can be sure, recognizes the problem, and he knows how to deal with it. Now let me that finally, this evening, I want to read to you just briefly excerpts from a letter which I received, a letter which after all this is over no one can take away from us. It reads as follows:  Dear Senator Nixon,  "Since I am only 19 years of age, I can't vote in this presidential election, but believe me if I could you and General Eisenhower would certainly get my vote. My husband is in the Fleet Marines in Korea. He' a corpsman on the front lines and we have a two month old son he's never seen. And I feel confident that with great Americans like you and General Eisenhower in the White House, lonely Americans like myself will be united with their loved ones now in Korea. I only pray to God that you won't be too late. Enclosed is a small check to help you in your campaign. Living on $85 a month it is all I can afford at present, but let me know what else I can do."   Folks, it's a check for $10, and it's one that I will never cash. And just let me say this: We hear a lot about prosperity these days, but I say why can't we have prosperity built on peace, rather than prosperity built on war? Why can't we have prosperity and an honest Government in Washington, D.C., at the same time? Believe me, we can. And Eisenhower is the man that can lead this crusade to bring us that kind of prosperity. And now, finally, I know that you wonder whether or not I am going to stay on the Republican ticket or resign. Let me say this: I don't believe that I ought to quit, because I'm not a quitter. And, incidentally, Pat's not a quitter. After all, her name was Patricia Ryan and she was born on St. Patrick's day, and you know the Irish never quit. But the decision, my friends, is not mine. I would do nothing that would harm the possibilities of Dwight Eisenhower to become President of the United States. And for that reason I am submitting to the Republican National Committee tonight through this television broadcast the decision which it is theirs to make. Let them decide whether my position on the ticket will help or hurt. And I am going to ask you to help them decide. Wire and write the Republican National Committee whether you think I should stay on or whether I should get off. And whatever their decision is, I will abide by it. But just let me say this last word. Regardless of what happens, I'm going to continue this fight. I'm going to campaign up and down in America until we drive the crooks and the Communists and those that defend them out of Washington. And remember folks, Eisenhower is a great man, believe me. He's a great man. And a vote for Eisenhower is a vote for what's good for America.
Following are excerpts from the official transcript of the news conference held here today by Vice President Nixon and Henry Cabot Lodge after their meeting with President Eisenhower. Vice President NIXON. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have just had a conference with the President, and I think I can properly indicate the subjects that were discussed without going into the details of what the President said. We discussed, first of all, the upcoming legislative session on August 1, and the President made it very clear that it was his view that it was vitally important that this be a session in which the interests of the people rather than politics be put first. I told the President that I agreed completely with that view, and that I felt that we could, at this session, pass some legislation which would be in the interests of the people, provided we had cooperation from the Democratic majority. One point that was made with regard to that session was that the bills, which it has been suggested may he introduced by the members of the majority, called for vastly increased spending, would not be in the interests of the people and would be purely political, unless they carried with them the taxes, the increased taxes necessary to pay the bill for such legislation. And I would say in summary, with regard to that session, that the President has under consideration a proposal that he send a message to the Congress when it meets. That decision is one that he has not made and that, of course, he will announce at an appropriate time. The second subject that we discussed was the food-for-peace proposal - the distribution of surplus foods through the United Nations. As you ladies and gentlemen will recall, I discussed this proposal in my speech at Minot, N. Dak., a few weeks ago. The matter was discussed today in terms of how that might be implemented both within the administration and within the United Nations. In addition to that, we discussed the campaign. I might say I received, along with Ambassador Lodge, some very good campaign tips from the "champ" in this respect; and we discussed the campaign. We reported to the President on the meetings that we had had in Washington today, and we discussed also his plans for the campaign period. Now, obviously, we will not indicate what those plans are. They have not been completely firmed up, and any announcement in that respect he will make himself. Now, as far as your questions are concerned today, I will be glad to respond to any of them that deal with, of course, any of the subjects I have mentioned, and on others that you have. And I will respond also to any political questions. As far as Ambassador Lodge is concerned, as I indicated at my press conference in Chicago, since he still is acting as Ambassador to the United Nations, he will engage in no political campaigning and will make comments on no political subjects until he completes his responsibility in the United Nations. He, however, can be questioned and will respond to any questions you have with regard to business before the United Nations. So we will be glad to have questions now. Q. Mr. Vice President, the Republican platform calls for accelerated defense spending. Many people have interpreted this as a conflict with the President's defense policy, since he has not sent up any supplemental requests for defense money. As a second - I would like your comments on that - a second question in that connection, I wonder what money figure you think should be appropriated to accelerate the defense program? A. First, as far as the accelerated defense spending to which you have referred is concerned, I believe that in those areas where technical breakthroughs have made it obvious and necessary that increased spending be approved in order to improve our defense posture, that in this case you can have justification or increased spending. I believe also that to the extent that the world situation has become more critical in certain areas than it was previously, that increased spending to improve our defense is justified. I do not agree with those who say that the programs that have been approved by the administration in the past are inadequate. I do say that where technical breakthroughs have occurred, and where the world situation has changed, that we must reappraise our defense spending to meet those situations. Now, so far as specific amounts are concerned, I would not indicate at this time any answer to that question. At a proper time, in the course of the next few weeks, I shall of course be discussing defense and will then expand on the answer that I give at this time. Q. Mr. Vice President, Communist China's Premier Chou En-lai today has suggested a world-power nonaggression pact that would include the United States, Communist China, and other world powers, and also a nuclear-free zone, I believe, in Asia. I would like to have your reactions to those two proposals. A. I haven't had an opportunity to study either of the proposals and I would say that to comment upon them, without having seen them specifically and studied them, would be inappropriate at this point. Q. Mr. Vice President, you said you had received some good campaign tips from the - did you say the chairman? Mr. Nixon. From the "champ." Q. Could you tell us what some of those campaign tips were? A. I wouldn't want to give any information that would be helpful to our opponents, so - [laughter]. But the President, I might say, is tremendously interested in this campaign and he had a number of suggestions that we found helpful, that we are going to put into implementation as we make our whole campaign plans. Q. Did you get any clear indication as to the extent of the President's participation in the campaign to come? A. Yes, we did. As I have indicated, however, it would not be appropriate for me to answer any questions with regard to what - how much he will participate. I will only say that he is vitally interested in, and he would hope to be helpful to the extent that his participation would be helpful. Q. Do you want him to participate A. I can - I would answer that question by saying that I have always felt that the President had immense public approval in the country, both as a man and for his policies. I think his recent visit to Chicago, the reception that he had there, is an indication of his great popularity in the country, and obviously, to the extent that he could participate after he has, of course, put first his responsibilities as President - and that must come first. We, of course, would be delighted to have him. But that decision is one that he must make, and which he, himself, will answer at the proper time. Q. Mr. Vice President, as I am sure you know, Senator Kennedy and the Democrats took out after you today on farm policy, and they have accused you of abandoning the administration's farm program, after supporting it for 7½ years, as they say, and picturing you as a political captain leaving a sinking ship. Do you have any comment on those charges? A. I would only say that I am not surprised at the charges and that, as I explained, I thought, quite clearly in Chicago, I think it is essential that we need a new approach, a new leadership, in farm policy. Due to the fact that the present positions, both from the legislative standpoint and the executive standpoint, have resulted in an impasse, a stalemate, which means that upon the farmers of the country and upon the people of the country we have imposed a program which is not in the best interests of either, in which the surpluses continue to pile up, and farm income for major commodities continues to go down. That is the reason that I believe that at this point we should move forward from this position and attempt to break the stalemate through a new approach. And the new approach that I have indicated I will spell out in greater detail in a major farm speech early in the campaign. Q. You indicated in Chicago that you hoped to do some weekend campaigning, and hoped for an agreement with the majority leadership about that. The majority leadership indicated that it wanted to work weekends. What change has that made in your planning? A. I am perfectly happy to do whatever the majority leader and Mr. Kennedy would say they desire to do. I only had in mind the fact that Mr. Kennedy, of course, was campaigning a great deal, and I don't criticize him for doing this, during the session of Congress through which we have just passed. And to the extent that he desires to be on the job in Washington, I will be on the job in Washington. To the extent that he leaves Washington in this period, I, of course, will have to feel free to leave Washington also * * Q. In view of the fact that there will be intense political activity in this upcoming session of Congress, do you think they will be able to accomplish anything? A. Being perfectly realistic, a session of this type in the past has not been particularly productive. On the other hand, I think it is important that this be a productive session. I think we need action, for example, on the school legislation, on our health legislation, on our depressed areas legislation in - to just name three areas - action in which committees have already held hearings and where certainly we should be able to move forward * * * But I would say that any bill providing for increases in spending massive increases in spending, which do not carry - any bills which not carry with them the taxes to pay the bill, are going to walk right into a veto, in my opinion. And they should. The test here is whether or not they are playing politics or working in the interests of the people, is whether or not they meet up to the fact that with that increased spending they have got to increase the taxes. Or, to quote Senator Kennedy, he said that this was a time for sacrifice Q. Considering the crowded docket that faces Congress, do you think it would be appropriate for the Republicans to push for additional civil rights legislation during this August session? A. I would say that that is a matter that is probably out of the hands of both the President and the leadership generally, because I understand that both Republicans and Democrats are going to present civil rights legislation bills to carry out both platforms to the Congress. I would suggest this, in that respect: Certainly this legislation will be presented to the Congress. To get action on new legislation that had not been before committees would be extremely difficult in a 3-week session, but it does happen that we have several proposals that - on which committee hearings have already been held. For example, to give statutory status to the Committee on Government Contracts. There are several proposals in which committee hearings have already been held which could be brought up and which could be passed. And I think that it would be responsible to present those proposals and ask for action for them in a 3-week session Q. Could Ambassador Lodge tell us how soon he believes an effective program for disposal of surpluses could get through the United Nations? Mr. LODGE. I think a proposal for disposal of surpluses would be welcomed very warmly in the United Nations. I think you could get a resolution through in the forthcoming General Assembly that would accomplish a lot. Q. Mr. Ambassador, have you had time to catch up today on the Russian proposal for a kind of summit meeting in the General Assembly on disarmament? A. Yes. I heard about it. It's a typically specious and frivolous maneuver. We have made a good-faith effort to advance the - advance toward disarmament - and make some progress by having a meeting of the Disarmament Commission. Now, when they make a proposal like this, it's a cynical attempt to prevent progress, that's what it is it shows that they don't really want disarmament. Q. Can you estimate how long your disarmament duties will keep you under this self-imposed noncampaigning status? A. Well, it isn't really self-imposed. It is - would obviously be inappropriate for me to, as the U.S. representative to the United Nations - to engage in partisan politics. For the 8 years I have been there, I have never made a single utterance of that kind. And when the time comes that I do make utterances of that kind, I will not be at the United Nations any more.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much, Chad, Norrie. It's just impossible to mention the names of all of those who are here, the distinguished guests that are on this platform, and all that I can say is that every person here, believe me, is distinguished as far as I'm concerned. If you would take the time to drive down the freeway in this traffic to get here at 5 o'clock, you really have a great loyalty to our cause and we thank you for it. [Applause.] You know, as a matter of fact, you know, I was on television 3 weeks ago, I saw a considerable amount from a convention that was held here in Los Angeles [boos]. You know, after hearing some of the things they were saying about me there, I was almost afraid to come home. But I can only say that certainly this welcome is one that will remain in our hearts all our lives, and Pat and I want you to know how much we appreciate your taking the time to come and how much we hope that in the months ahead we will be able to work with you in this great campaign, which is beginning today, and will continue - as I have indicated - until November 8. And now, may I say, too, a word about the many people that I see in this audience, so many are old friends, so many have worked in previous campaigns - beginning in 1946 up through the years - that I just wish we could mention each one of you. And all that I can say - and Pat - we both can say this: If it hadn't been for the people here, for what you've done, we wouldn't be in the position that we're in here now, and we want you to know how deeply we appreciate what you've done through the years in our campaigns. [Applause.] And, incidentally, if I might also add just a word, as far as the convention that did take place, I received a letter this morning which indicated that there is going to be a considerable shift of votes in this campaign - in California and throughout the Nation - as there was in 1952 and 1956. [Applause.] This is a sentence from the letter - I will try to recall it as well as I can - the gentleman wrote, he said: "Since my principles have left the Democratic Party, so am I leaving the Democratic Party." And all that I can say is that in this campaign this is bigger than any party, it's bigger than any individual, because the issues which are involved here - involve not only our country, our homes, the future of our children - they involve the future of the world. And, as I stand here and talk to you, my closest friends, the ones who have known us the longest, who have worked with us through so many hard campaigns, I want you to know that we realize that in this campaign we are going to be speaking for a cause that is much bigger than any personal ambitions that we might have, much bigger than the future or the fate of our party. We realize that what is involved is your future - and ours - and the whole world's. And we just hope that in the months ahead we can be worthy of the trust you have placed in us, and that we can be worthy of the cause which we're going to try to represent. And may I say at this point, too, that in speaking to you today, standing here as long as you have, knowing that you have to get back, I will not talk long, and I have nothing to say against my opponent, but I would like to say something for America. [Applause.] In the past few weeks we heard a great deal about what was wrong with the United States. We heard that we were a second-class country militarily; we heard that our economy was second to that of the Soviet Union [the crowd shouts "No"] we heard that our scientists, our education, our whole purpose was second rate - and I just want to set the record straight. We all know that this is not a perfect land; we all know that there are things wrong, and the test of a true patriot, of one that is truly loyal to his country, is not to see nothing wrong with the country, but to recognize the things that are wrong and to work to correct them so that this country can be something he can be proud of always. But by the same token, let's remember this: When we have heard in the past few weeks all the things that are wrong, about America being second rate, I can only say that having traveled around the world, having seen what our potential opponents have, and knowing what we have, that the United States today is the strongest nation militarily, economically, ideologically, and the American people have the will and the resources to maintain that strength and that position of world leadership - and let's never forget that. [Applause.] And when we talk these days, you know, of this being a contest that is military in character - and it is - when we talk of this being a contest that is economic competition - and it is that - let's remember that this is also a test of faith, it's a test of who has the greatest faith. And let it never be said that the American people lost faith in themselves, faith in their country, faith in their God. This is what is going to count in this struggle, and on this score America will always be first and we will make no mistake about that. [Applause.] And now, if I could add a word with regard to the future, and how I believe we should meet it. I believe that Americans must resolve that we can never settle for second best in anything. I say this not because we are not strong economically and militarily today, but because we're in a race, as I said in my acceptance speech, a race for our survival, and when you're in a race - no matter how far you're ahead - you've got to move ahead to stay ahead. And we're a progressive people in this country, particularly here in the West, we never want to be satisfied with things as they are, no matter how good our record is, we're not here just to stand on it but to build on it. We want to build a better State, a better city, a better America, a better world - this is the standard that we are going to raise in this campaign. Our opponents likewise want to do that. We give them credit for that, as I would trust they would give us credit for the same good intentions. But the question is: How do you get there? What is the best way to building a stronger and better America and building also a new world? You know, it's often said that without vision a people perishes, and this is true. But a people with the wrong vision perishes much sooner, and I happen to believe that the vision we have for America is the right vision [applause] because it builds on the sound fundamental principle that has been responsible for our success in the past; it builds not on expanding the powers of the Federal Government, but it builds on increasing opportunities and responsibilities for millions of individual Americans. That's the way to build America's future. [Applause.] And as we approach our problem, whether in meeting the problems of our schools or the problems of our older citizens without adequate health care, whether it is in solving the problems of our cities, which the mayor and the board of supervisors here are doing such splendid work on, whatever it is at home, or whether it's meeting our problems abroad, let us remember that the strength of America, the great strength of America, is not in its Government, the greatest strength is in its people. This is the advantage that we have and this is the firm foundation upon which we must build. And as we look ahead, may I say that means all the people of this country. Let me give you an example. People often ask me about the question of how we are to develop to the full the economic and scientific and ideological strength of this country. And you know how you do it? It means that every boy and girl in this country, every one, must have an equal opportunity for an education. He must have an equal opportunity to reach the top - or, putting it in baseball language - you know, we all can't get home runs but every boy and girl in America is entitled to his time at bat. That's the way to build a great America. [Applause.] And so, I say today that we stand for a program, a program that will give to our people their time at bat, a program that will develop to the full their energies, their abilities, their imagination, so that they contribute their best to America. And then, if I could add this final thought. What are the stakes? What really is going to happen in the years ahead? You know, there have been many times in our Nation's history when leaders have stood before the people and said: We must work to save America. Today he must work to save America, but we are working to save freedom for the whole world. We are working for a world of peace rather than a world of war. We are working for a world of freedom rather than a world of tyranny. We are working for a world of plenty rather than one of want. And we in America must realize that unless we - not just our Government, not just the President and the leaders - unless each and every one of us does his best for America, America can't do her best for the world. That's what we want from you. And we want your best in everything - in your job, in your school. And I might begin by saying it - we want your best in this election. We want your best whether you're a Democrat or Republican, whichever candidate you're for, may I say listen to the candidates, make your decision on the basis of where they stand, what leadership they offer to America - not on the basis of mere personality, not on the basis of merely the party label - and once you've made the decision, then just don't vote, but go out and work for what you believe is right. Because the very best leadership that America can produce is what we need, and you - you, the people - determine it. And may I say that as I look at this crowd, as I see so many who have worked in previous campaigns and so many new faces, I have faith in this country. I have faith in what we can do, because Americans are at their best when our challenges are the greatest, and I am confident that this country can and will lead the forces of freedom to victory without war [applause], that we can and will do that. And now, if I might close by saying again that as we came down from Reno, Nev., where they had, incidentally, a wonderful welcome for Pat - they had the biggest crowd they'd ever had in history in Reno, but that was for Pat, not for me, I can assure you - and as we came down from Reno and flew over the freeways and I saw the traffic jams and all the like - and then I see this tremendous crowd at the airport - it makes me realize, well, we do have certainly some dedicated people that are going to go out and work, because if you drive down here at 5 o'clock in the afternoon you will do anything in this campaign to win. Thank you very much. [Applause.] I just want you to know that going with me to Hawaii in the morning at 4 a.m., incidentally, we're leaving at 4 a.m. - and, incidentally, in case you want to know why we're going at 4 a .m., I want to tell you first my attitude toward Government expenditures and I'm starting to practice it on campaign expenditures. They had us scheduled for an 8 a.m. departure in a chartered plane, that was, in a jet. I found that we could save $11,000 if we went at 4 a.m., so we're going at 4 a.m. tomorrow morning to Hawaii. [Applause.] Now, traveling with us today, first, is Secretary of Interior, Fred Seaton - Fred, won't you say a word to our friends here in Los Angeles? Secretary SEATON. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I've been here many, many times, but I must say that - aside from President Eisenhower - I've never been here at a time in any better company than I'm in today, and I'm very happy to be here with your favorite son and favorite lady, the next President of the United States and the first lady of the land. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. And now, I present to you a man of whom we're tremendously proud and who is in the U.S. Senate, he is a very junior Senator from the 50th State of the Union, and he is going to be, I assure you, one of the great leaders of the Senate in the years ahead, Hiram Fong from the State of Hawaii. [Applause.] Senator FONG. The new State of Hawaii says to the Golden State of California: Aloha. Dick Nixon is going to win in Hawaii. [Applause.] Let me hear your response to this question: Is Dick Nixon, your native son, going to win in the State of California? [Applause and cheers.]
QUESTION. (Says the Vice President plans to use Governor Rockefeller in several States and that he regards New York State as perhaps the most important of all. Asks for clarification.) Vice President NIXON. Well, I wouldn't agree that New York State was the most important of all, because I wouldn't downgrade any State. I have said on several occasions that I think this will probably be the closest election in this century in this country. Now, of course, when you look at the election of 1916, that means it will be pretty close. I think it could depend, for example, on what happens in California, or any one of the States of the Union. And New York obviously has the most electoral votes, and for that reason it is a major prize in the election. But California is certainly among those that will be one of the closest States and the hardest fought States. And in that connection, I would like to say that in my discussions with Ambassador Lodge yesterday, while we are not yet ready to announce his schedule since he, of course, cannot make any political appearances until he finishes his work at the U.N., that one of his first major speeches will be in California. In addition to that, when I talked with Governor Rockefeller on the phone on Sunday, I indicated that we had a number of invitations for him for California, and he indicated that he would be delighted to appear in California and we expect him to appear in California in the course of the campaign. Mr. Finch is working out the details. QUESTION. Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Truman made peace with each other today. Do you consider that bad news? Vice President NIXON. No; I would expect that, and news that you expect is usually not bad; it's the unexpected that usually knocks you off balance. QUESTION. [Repeated by the Vice President.] As a means of reducing world tension, what do you think of the idea of the leaders of the major religions of the world getting together to see if they could agree on some basic principles? Do you think such a meeting would be doomed to failure? Vice President NIXON. Well, first, I would say that if such a meeting could be arranged, it could of course contribute tremendously if agreement on such principles were possible. I believe that the stakes are so high, the stakes insofar as having a world at peace, or one in which we have war, that we must explore every possible avenue - government and nongovernment - to create the conditions which could lead to peace and a lessening of world tensions. I have no ideas of course as to whether such a meeting would help, but I do know that one thing that characterizes all the great religions of the world - including, of course, the Christian religion - is an adherence to the principles of peace and nonviolence. And certainly that means you start with one basic principles - if the leaders could get together, they might be able to do a great deal in this cause. QUESTION. Mr. Kennedy says he will not make any members of his proposed Cabinet known prior to November. Will you? Vice President NIXON. [A buzzing sound is heard.] Actually, I got up earlier than that this morning, gentlemen, that was my wrist alarm going off. [Laughter.] The answer is, "No." I think that is a good rule that the Senator is following; it's one that I announced some time ago. I think it's a good rule also. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, will you stick to the high road in this campaign ahead? Vice President NIXON. Well, I think the question in the campaign ahead is whether we talk issues or personalities. I believe the issues are vitally important; I have tried to talk about them. I will continue to talk about them, and I'm going to avoid discussion of personalities. Now, in my opinion, when you're talking issues, that is what I would call the "high road"; when you're talking personalities, in other words, something which is not related really to the decision the voters make, I think that's something other than the high road. QUESTION. Jack Kennedy says you were one of the architects of the Benson plan and now you are turning your back on it, selling it and regretting it. What about this? Vice President NIXON. I would say in answer to that question, that as a member of the administration, I of course have had an opportunity to comment upon the various administration proposals as they have come before the Cabinet for consideration. In the area of farm policy, a very difficult area and a very controversial one, I have felt for some time that a stalemate which had been developed between the administration's position and the position in the Congress, had to be broken. My disagreement with Mr. Benson was on his unwillingness to develop new approaches which would break that stalemate. And, for that reason, I felt that it is time for both parties, and the leaders of both parties, not to dig in in the prepared positions of the past - either legislative or administrative neither of which can prevail, neither of which can solve the problem - but to offer new approaches which can get support. And no matter how good a position may be, you are unable to get a Congress to enact it, it means you are stuck with what you've got, and what we've got in farm policy is wrong. It's wrong from the standpoint of the people because it continues to cost more as the surpluses mount up, and it's certainly wrong from the standpoint of the farmer because the farmer continues to get less for his basic products - crops. So we must move from that position and find a new approach, and whatever Senator Kennedy or anyone else wants to characterize that, it's perfectly all right with me. I intend to offer to the people throughout this campaign the programs will solve the problems we presently have, the programs that are not wedded to past positions where those past positions no longer are tenable. QUESTION. [The Vice President repeats the question.] The reports that our allies are worried about the election gap - is there anything that we can do about that? Vice President NIXON. I think that the President's action in briefing Senator Kennedy on foreign policy, the intelligence matters particularly, of course, as was the case when the President ran in 1952 and in l956, I think that to an extent that answers that problem. In addition to that, in the foreign policy area, I think that our allies need not have too great a concern with regard to the positions, at least the stated positions, of the candidates in the parties, because we both stand for strengthening the relations with our major allies in the world; we do not have a basic disagreement on that point. If I were an ally of the United States, I would not be concerned on that point. QUESTION. When did you first express your disagreement with Secretary Benson, or your call for a new approach on the farm problem - privately or in official circles. Vice President NIXON. I think the record is pretty clear on that. I have for several years, when it seemed that we were unable to get action in the Congress on the proposals that he had made. And I would say that the stories to the effect that I have been trying to get a breakthrough in this area are correct. QUESTION. David McDonald came out for Senator Kennedy and the Democratic Party yesterday and that indicated that labor would go along with the Democratic Party. What are your plans - or the Republican Party plans - to woo some of the labor votes away? Vice President NIXON. Well, I would answer that question in two parts: First, the fact that Senator Kennedy has the support of a number of major leaders, labor leaders, is not a surprise, because he, in effect, paid the price that he had to get for that support in his platform in Los Angeles. I will not pay that price. I will not pay it because we need a President in this next administration who will not owe his election either to the captains of industry or to the leaders of labor, who, when there develops an impasse between the two - as it did in the steel strike settlement - he can use the great power and prestige of his office in the interest of the public at large without being weighted one way or the other on the side of the labor leaders or the leaders of management. Now, as far as the labor vote itself is concerned, in 1952 and in 1956 Mr. McDonald - along with most of the other major labor leaders - supported the opposition candidate. We still got a considerable portion of the vote of labor union members, and of course this is typical of American voters and it's particularly typical of California voters, who (1) do not vote the party rigidly and (2) do not like any indication of being told how to vote by a leader of an organization to which they belong. I believe that we will get a good share of the vote of labor union members who will respect us for our standing for the interests of the country and who will recognize that labor has never "had it so good" as they have had it in the past 8 years, infinitely better than they had it in the 8 years of the Truman administration, and who will want to continue in office principles that will continue to provide increased take-home pay in real dollars rather than increased pay in dollars which were inflated (as was the case in the Truman administration). I think we can make a good case with the labor rank-and-file and we intend to go after it. QUESTION. [The Vice President repeats the question.] Do you consider that Senator Kennedy is making personal attacks on you? Where do you draw the line between political attacks and personal attacks? Vice President NIXON. The line is between issues and personalities. When you're discussing issues, for example like the labor issue that I've just discussed, you should have a hard-hitting discussion on both sides. He will express his views with regard to mine, I'm sure - he should; and I will do likewise. I think where you draw the line is where you question the motives of an individual, his honesty, his personal honesty, as did Senator Kennedy in his acceptance speech. As you will note, I did not reply in kind and I shall not reply in kind throughout this campaign. I believe that the public deserves more than simply a contest of that type in which we are really trying to avoid a discussion of the issues by letting it develop into a discussion of personalities. I have always believed in discussing issues in as effective, hard-hitting way as I can. I expect Senator Kennedy to do likewise, I hope he does, and if we can do that, the country will benefit. QUESTION. Are you in favor of a joint effort with Russia and other nations for an international space program? Vice President NIXON. The answer is that the United States in the United Nations has been exploring the possibility of the peaceful exploration of outer space, the peaceful development of atomic energy and other areas. I believe that if we could get agreement, that this would be helpful. I believe that certainly we should explore it; I do not see at this time any hope that it will come about. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, do you welcome the debate between you and Senator Kennedy? Vice President NIXON. I assume you mean a joint debate on television or radio. The answer is that I think the debate - under the proper circumstances - would be helpful in interpreting the issues to the people. I say the "proper circumstances" - I'd like to outline them just briefly: I think it would not serve a useful purpose if it was the kind of debate that Senator Kennedy and Senator Humphrey had in West Virginia, where I think what you need is a discussion of the issues without texts, without notes, where the candidates in depth go into specific issues so that the people can learn how they think and how they react to the questions that are raised by each other in the course of the debate - We're now trying to see whether we can work out such a format. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, you said earlier that you thought our allies need not worry whichever one of you was elected - I didn't understand what you meant. Do you mean there's essentially no difference so far as our allies are concerned? Vice President NIXON. When I said there was essentially no difference between my opponent and myself as far as our allies was concerned, the answer is that as I look at the platforms and as I look at Senator Kennedy's voting record and my voting record before I became Vice President, I find a great similarity on, for example, support of NATO, support of the regional alliances that we have in other parts of the world. Now, there will be differences over and beyond that, differences, for example, in how much emphasis each believes should be put on the nonmilitary aspects of the world struggle; whether or not the NATO alliance should be strengthened to undertake economic activities on a broad basis, such as it does not at the present time. I do not think we can get into the specifics on that. What I do mean to say is that you don't have a situation here where one candidate says we want to weaken the alliance, and the other candidate says we want to keep the alliance; both candidates, I think, are for - recognize the fact that the United States must have friends in the world, that we must develop alliances, and that programs should be adopted which will strengthen those alliances. The only question will be one of means and on that, of course, we will differ.
Lt. Gov. BELL. * * * truly with great pride that I have this opportunity to present to this audience - of all political creeds - the Honorable Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States and the Republican nominee for the Presidency of our beloved country. [Applause.] He is a neighbor of ours from California, but he selected Nevada as the spot from which to inaugurate his campaign in honor of his wife, Patricia Nixon, whose day we celebrate today in this great State. I present to you Richard Milhous Nixon, the next President of the United States. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. Well, thank you very much, Rex Bell, for a gracious introduction and for handling this meeting in such a superb fashion as master of ceremonies. May I say, too, that to the Governor of the State of Nevada and his wife, to the mayors that are here, to all of you from all over the State who have come here to welcome Pat, that I am deeply appreciative of your being here, and whatever your political persuasion and however you vote in November, we're very proud that Pat comes from the State of Nevada where the people are so friendly as they are. [Applause.] Down here in front of us are some of the Washington press corps who are traveling with us on this first campaign swing. And as we were riding on a plane out to Nevada today, several of them were asking: "Well, why do you start the campaign in Nevada?" I can give several reasons and several good ones. First, because it's my neighboring State; it's a State that I've often visited in the past and, like Pat, it is a land of enchantment, because Nevada still has the feel of the West about it, the feel of the frontier, not only the "new" frontier but the "old" frontier as well. [Applause.] And we will never forget that day at Virginia City when our daughters were with us, how we rode down the streets and got the real feel of the West, which before we'd only been able to experience through television. But, in any event, that could be a reason, the fact that Nevada is our friendly neighbor to those of us who live in California. Another reason I could give for starting this campaign in Nevada is that I cherish the friendships that we have here, friendships including Rex Bell, whom we of course think of as a Californian in a way, but who incidentally is a supersalesman of Nevada, I want to tell you that, all over this country - the mayors who introduced us and, speaking of friends, even though they represent the other political party, the Governor and his very charming wife. We are glad that they are our friends, too, on this occasion. [Applause.] And then, I could give of course other reasons, but Nevada is, according to the Governor, the second fastest growing State in America; according to the Lieutenant Governor, the first fastest growing State in America. Now, I'm not going to get into that, but as I told Grant before we came in, and Rex, I wasn't going to be in Florida for a while, so we'll say Nevada's first today, at least, in being the fastest growing State in the country. [Applause.] But as all of you know, the real reason is something much more significant than what I have mentioned, something more deep and more moving than that. I wanted to open this campaign in Nevada because it is the birthplace of Pat, and because I wanted first to come to this State where she was born and, if I could say some things about her that she cannot say about herself and I know you'd like to know - let me tell you what she has meant to me, to the work that I have done in the years that I have been in Government and even before that. And first, a bit about her and her life. You know, you've all read, I know, about me - don't believe everything you hear, incidentally - but I was going to say you've read everything about me, about my early life, and I've noted some stories that have said the Vice President is a man who came up the hard way, that he worked his way through school. I want to tell you the truth about it today, and in telling you the truth about myself I can tell you something very important about Pat. I did work when I went to school. I worked in a service station and a grocery store when I was going through college, and then I worked in a library when I was going through law school. But my mother and father were able to help me some. I remember my mother used to get up at 4 o'clock in the morning to bake apple and cherry and lemon pies to sell at 25 cents apiece to help me get through college, so don't give me all the credit; she and Dad helped. But let me tell you the story of Pat. She moved to California at an early age with her father and her mother, and her mother died when she was 12 and she helped take care of her family of three brothers and her father after that. And her father died when she was 17, and she worked her way completely through college and university so the credit goes to her for that; she had no help whatever and I want to pay that tribute to her. [Applause.] You know, I'm glad you clapped then, because I'm going to catch it for telling this to you when I get back in the plane, I'm sure of that. But then let me tell you what happened after that. You know, when I was in law school studying law - as some of the people up here on this platform have studied it - I remember one of my first teachers on the first day of school said: "Ladies and gentlemen (when we were coming in all bright eyed and bushy tailed ready to be great lawyers and be great successes), I want to give you a little advice: marry for money and practice law for love." Well, that's what I did. Because as a young struggling lawyer in Whittier, Calif., in the late thirties I wasn't making too much, and so I found a schoolteacher who was making more than I was and I married her and she helped buy the engagement ring, that's how we were able to do it. [Applause.] And ever since it's been that way. When we campaigned for the House and the Senate, Pat was the one who never wore out. I'd get tired in the evenings, but she was still as bright and as charming at the end of the day as she was at the beginning. When we took our trips around the world, you've heard about what I did, I'm sure - read about it - but Pat visited hospitals and children's homes and orphanages, a leper colony in Panama, the first lady ever to go there and greet the inmates, things of this sort around the world, and may I say that whatever I may have said and done, I'm sure that she left behind a feeling of good will and affection for America that I could never have created by anything that I said. [Applause.] And then, of course, a lot of you people have heard about our visit to the Soviet Union and, as you know, and I'll have to admit, Mr. Khrushchev didn't seem to think much of me but he liked Pat, that's for sure. [Applause.] And so it was. And then, of course, we came to this campaign and the pattern still continued. We went through the period before the convention and we traveled considerably through the country. Pat always by my side. And I remember when we were out in Nebraska, Fred, your home State, you remember that day, and we were standing in the receiving line and people were shaking hands, and one farmer from the west of Nebraska - and I looked down on those farms down there, they need a little of the rain they had here in Nevada a couple of days ago - as one farmer came through the line he shook hands with me, shook hands with Pat, came back around to me and he said, "Young fellow, my wife's going to vote for you, but I'm going to vote for Pat." So you see, that's how important she is. And then at the convention itself - and maybe some of you didn't know it - you know, it was Nevada's votes that put us over the top for the 666 votes. [Wild applause.] And up until the time that that happened I was really worried. [Laughter.] In any event, may I say to you seriously today that as we think of the place of men in American public life, let us never overlook the fact that our wives play a tremendously important part. And what I have said about Pat today - partly in jest and all in great seriousness as well - could be said about the wives of men who have served our country, your States, your cities throughout this country, and I just wanted to pay that tribute to all the ladies that are here; in paying it to Pat, I pay it to you, too. [Applause.] Now this today I know is a civic welcome. We have participating representatives of the Democratic Party and representatives of the Republican Party. And I am not going on this occasion - which very appropriately honors Pat as graciously as it does - I am not going to talk to you in a partisan sense. I have nothing to say which is derogatory about my Democratic opponents, what I would like to say to you today is to talk to you only about America. And let us think for just a few minutes in the time that we have remaining - and I know you've stood here a long time and I will not hold you long - but let us think for just a few minutes of this country of ours, and let us think not as Republicans and not as Democrats, but as Americans, and what we want America to be - what we want America to be insofar as our children are concerned; what we want America to be insofar as its leadership in the world is concerned. And in speaking of America, may I first say that we must never forget what a great and a good country this is. [Applause.] In a political campaign there is naturally a tendency to point up those things that are wrong - not only about the administration, but sometimes to let it slop over a bit on the country itself. Now I only want to say that when you hear that America is a second-class country militarily, when you hear that our economy is second rate, when you hear that our scientists are inferior, that our education is inferior, just let me say this: There are some things wrong with the United States and true patriotism criticizes those things that are wrong and tries to correct them. But never let the things that are wrong obscure the things that are right. Let us never forget that America today - and I know whereof I speak - is the strongest Nation militarily, the strongest Nation ideologically, the strongest Nation economically in the world today, and let's be proud of it and let's not run America down. [Applause.] Does that mean that we stay where we are? And the answer is: Of course not. And you, here in the West, can particularly understand this because we're a progressive people. The reason you folks came west, or your parents came west, or your grandparents came west, or your grandparents were the first, the reason you did was that you wanted to build a better life for your children, you wanted progress. That should be the theme of America today. We are strong militarily and economically and in spiritual and moral faith with all of our weaknesses we are still very strong. But we want America to be stronger; we want to build a better life for our children than even we have had for ourselves. Let that be the theme for both of our great major parties. And there's another reason that that must be the way we think about America. We're in a race today. As I said in my acceptance speech the other day from Chicago, it's a race for our survival. And I have seen those that are racing against us - their hard faces, their eyes filled with fanaticism. They're behind, yes, but they're running hard, they're determined to catch up, and the battle today is whether or not our children and our grandchildren will grow up in a world or freedom, as we have been privileged to grow up in, or a world of slavery. And I say it shall and it will be a world of freedom, but it will be only if we do our job for America so that America can do its job for the world in its position of world leadership. [Applause.] [Note: Tape changed here.] * * * and make it stronger than ever. It means to the west, as Fred Seaton so eloquently said in his visits here, developing our great natural resources, developing them not only to meet the needs of our increasing population, but because America is going to have to continue to grow in order to resist those who threaten us abroad. It means also dealing with the problems we have, the problems of juvenile delinquency that affect our young people; the problem of our older citizens, who do not have adequate care for old age, particularly where heavy medical expenses are involved; it means doing a better job and developing equality of opportunity for all of our people so that every American will have an equal start, an equal chance at the starting line. Because we just can't afford not to have each young American - whatever he may be, whatever his race or his color or his creed - each American must have an opportunity to develop to the full his abilities so that he can contribute as a scientist or as a servant of government or in business, the very best that he knows how. In all this we can help to do at home. And then abroad it means something, too. It means that we in this country must recognize that our leadership will determine whether freedom lives in the world, whether it continues to expand in the world, or whether it is doomed to die in the world. And in that connection, let me say this: It is not enough for freedom to hold what it has; freedom to live must grow, because those who stand against freedom are attempting to expand and there is only one thing about this world that all of us must realize - we in the West understand it - we are living in a world of change and, therefore, if all that we stand for is to keep what we have, to be sure that nothing changes, then we can be sure that those who are not satisfied with what they have and who are attempting to change the world and make it over in their way, that they will win and we will lose. And that is why I say today Americans need a revitalization of their faith in the great ideals of the American Revolution, ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago, ideals in which we do not try to impose our system of government on anybody else, but in which we say that every person in this world, every people in this world, should have the right to choose the kind of government it wants - as President Eisenhower said so eloquently in his speech in Chicago a few days ago. [Applause.] And so, if I may bring to a conclusion my thoughts to you today, they are, very simply stated, this: It would be easy for me to say that the solution to our problems in the world - the building the kind of world so that these young girls and boys can grow up in a world of peace and not war - to build the kind of a world so that they can grow up in a world of freedom and not of want and not of tyranny, we must remember that it would be easy to say that somebody over in Washington is going to do all that - just elect the right man, elect one man or the other and he's going to do it. But remember, it would work that way in the Soviet Union, but it doesn't work that way in America. In America we have to do it - 180 million Americans - all rededicated to the great ideals that have been responsible for our progress in the past and that are the hope, the wonder of the world today. And so I ask each of you today, whatever you do this November I say go back to your homes, to your schools, to your students, do the best that you can for your country, because as you do your best you're doing the best not only for yourself but for your country as well. For you and your jobs, do the best that you can, because you're competing not only with the man down the street but with faceless men many, many miles, a half the world away. And I say to all of you in this political campaign: Don't let it be just a case where you go to the polls to vote; don't let it be just a contest between a couple of personalities; don't let it be just a case where you go down and stamp your ticket for one party or the other - mine or the other party, if you belong to it. But let it be a case where you listen to what we have to say and where you see that this election represents the very best judgment that the American voters can give, the best judgment as to the kind of leadership that we need. I'll do my best to tell you where I stand, and I know that my opponent will do his best. But it isn't going to be enough for us to do our best unless you do your best. And so I say: Don't just vote on election day. Work for the man of your choice, listen to what we have to say, and help to make the American political system, which is the source of our greatness, help to make it work. And, in conclusion, may I say again: We'll have many meetings in the next few months and many times we're going to be very tired, I can assure you, at the end of a long day. And Pat, I know you will agree with me when I say that there is none we will remember like this one - both because it was a beautiful day, because there were so many of you who took the time to come from many miles to this meeting as well as some nearby, but because, too, and I'm speaking personally now, because you have been so gracious and so kind to honor someone who, whatever may happen in November, is my "first lady." Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. Mr. Chairman, Secretary Seaton, Senator Kuchel, Senator Fong, Mr. Mayor, all of the distinguished guests on the platform and my fellow Californians, my neighbors and my friends. I want to say that during the course of the next few months Pat and I will attend many meetings in this country from Hawaii to New York to Florida to Main - all over the 50 States; and there will be none, I can assure you, that will make a more lasting impression upon us than this one tonight. And we thank you for coming out in such great numbers, for your warm enthusiasm, for the friendship which you have shown to us, and we only wish we had more time - time to meet each of you individually, to talk over with old friends old times, and to talk with some of the new people who live in this area and I notice from San Diego, and Orange County, and all over the State, to talk to all of you about some of our problems that we confront in the world today. But in any event may I say that we do deeply appreciate this great crowd, the fact that so many of our friends and neighbors are here. I was reminded just a minute ago by Hubert Perry that when we had a homecoming 8 years ago here on this athletic field that we shook hands with everybody who came and the crowd's a little bit too big to do that tonight I find. But we certainly wish that there were time for that. As some of you know we do have a schedule that tomorrow morning at 4 a.m. will take us to Hawaii and consequently we cannot stay here as long as we would like. But as I look back over here and see that 1933 football team - and, incidentally, that was one of Whittier College's better teams [applause] - as I look over here and think of that team and as I see the great stars of that team, I want to tell you something that impresses me. This is the first time those guys have been on the sidelines and I've been on the playing field. [Laughter-applause.] Because as Chief Newman will tell you, I really played well in the middle of the week but always playing the opponent's team for the varsity to run through the opponent's plays. But it's good to see them, and I hope after this meeting we will have a chance to get over and greet them. I also find that there's another special section back over here. I looked at these bleachers and I said, "What's that group of 150 people?" Hubert said, "Those are 150 of your relatives." [Laughter.] And I've often said with the Milhous family and the Nixon family all we need to do is to get our relatives to vote for us and we'd win in a landslide. So I'm going to talk to them tonight too - you can be sure of that. And then looking around this crowd I see people with whom I went to high school to college, people with whom I participated in various community affairs - the Twenty-Thirty Club, the Junior Chamber of Commerce, Kiwanis Club in La Habra. Certainly it is a moment where I, Mr. Mayor, find just as much difficulty as you to express the feelings that are in my heart, to say the things that I would like to say to those without whom neither I nor Pat could be here today in the capacity we hold. Because except what you did in the campaign of 1946 and again in the campaign of 1950, we would not have the high honor that we have today. And we thank all of you for that, for the hours of work, for the confidence and the faith you have expressed in us in those years, and we trust that in these months ahead that we will always be worthy of that trust, that we will represent our town and our county and our State as you would want us to represent it. And if we do that, I am sure it will be the best kind of representation because I know what is in your hearts and the feeling of patriotism and faith and confidence that you have in our country. [Applause.] As I stand here today there are many thoughts that do run through my mind, memories of those days that we were growing up. I think of some of the houses where I used to deliver groceries, the service station out on Whittier Boulevard where some of you used to stop and we tried to give you fair measure and that sort of thing for your business at that time. I think, too, of my days at Whittier High School and I'm very happy that Stan McCaffrey, who finished Whittier High School and was president of the student body there the year that I finished Whittier College, is now one of my top advisers in Washington with particular responsibility for the State of California. And if a Whittier boy can do it, and I think he can, we're going to carry California with Stan's leadership in this State. [Applause.] We think of California, of the many, many speeches that I have made throughout this State, the people that we've met. I think of my days here at Whittier College, the things I learned, the things I should have learned and didn't, and particularly what I think of tonight are those who made it possible for me to be able to stand here - not simply by your participation in elections, but those who were my teachers, those who were the ministers in the church which I attended, those who inspired me in high school and college-men like Paul Smith who have given their lives to teaching and who along the way have inspired young men and women to make their greatest contribution of which they are capable to their communities and to their States and to their Nation. I think perhaps the best theme that I could use tonight in speaking to this great audience of my friends and neighbors in California is to tell you what I think I learned at Whittier College, and how I have tried to apply what I learned to the position of public trust which I have had. This is a small college but as has been said, there are those who love it very deeply, those of us who have had the privilege of attending it. And we love this school because of the dedication of its faculty and because of an intangible something that you call spirit. The Whittier spirit is one that is not different from that in many other small colleges and larger universities in the sense that each of them, too, has a spirit. But it is different in the sense that here at Whittier we developed in our college years I would say a concern on three major problems. One was that each individual had a responsibility beyond that of simply making a good living for himself, that each individual had a responsibility to do his best for his community, for his State and his Nation in whatever assignment he might have - individual responsibility. This was part of the lesson of Whittier. And a second part of that lesson was expressed by the word "concern" that I used a moment ago and it's related to the first. Here at Whittier there was drilled into us in compulsory chapel, which incidentally I think was a good thing - I don't know whether it's still that way or not - and also in our classrooms a concern for people less fortunate than we in our communities, in our State, in our Nation and any place in the world, a concern for their welfare clearly apart from how helping them might help ourselves. And then, of course, third and perhaps above all, any person who went to Whittier then, and I am sure that is the case now, developed a devotion to and a dedication to peace, not simply to the static peace which means the absence of war, but to the creative vital peace which enables a people and which enables the world to make progress toward solving problems of tyranny and want and disease wherever they exist in the world. And I would like to talk just a bit about these three major principles which we had so much instruction in here at Whittier. I would like to talk about them in relationship to the problems we presently confront in this Nation. First, the problem of peace. There is nothing more important. You know we can solve every other problem we have in this world today, in this Nation, we can have the best social security, the best education, the best jobs that we can possibly imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference unless we're around to enjoy them. And so the most important function that a leader of this Nation has is to find a way to keep the peace and to keep the peace without surrender of principle, without surrender of territory. Peace with freedom for the world. [Applause.] Now some of my good Quaker friends and I happen to be a member of that faith as you know, have written me letters from time to time expressing a concern about the positions our Government and the positions I have taken on this great fundamental issue of peace. I would like in effect to state those positions now in a positive way so that you may understand why what we do in our Government today is in the interests of peace, in the real interests of peace, and not obstructing the way to peace. First, we are keeping America strong. We believe that America, together with her allies, must be stronger than any potential aggressor in the world and we believe that this is necessary not because we want this thing for the purpose of being able to launch a war, not because we want war, but because we know this is the way to avoid war. [Applause.] I can assure you that America today is a strong Nation, and I can assure you, too, that this strength is essential to maintain and we will maintain it. Now a second point: In addition to our military strength we must have a policy diplomatically and we do have a policy diplomatically of firmness in dealing with those who would threaten the peace throughout the world. I have those who have written to me and said, "Now, Mr. Nixon, you're a Quaker, you believe in peace. Why is it that you stand against the proposals for disarmament that are made by Mr. Khrushchev? Why is it that we can't go more than halfway on these proposals and take some of them on faith?" I want to tell you why we can't. Because if the United States ever enters into a disarmament agreement with the Soviet or with any other potential aggressor which they might break and which we would keep, that would increase the danger of war rather than reduce it and that we must never do. [Applause.] And the reason that we insist that disarmament must not be just a fine slogan but that it must be honest and that there must be an agreement which will see that both sides keep it is not because we do not want disarmament but because we do want disarmament. We want the fact of disarmament rather than the fiction of it which is what the Soviets up to this time have been offering, since they have not offered inspection along with it. [Applause.] Now a third point. When I speak of firmness, firmness in dealing with the Soviets, with the Communist threat, as I said in my acceptance speech, we must have firmness without belligerency. It's very easy, I can assure you, and sometimes very tempting when you are insulted to strike back with the same words. But we must avoid engaging in a war of words which would heat up the international atmosphere to the point that we would have a nuclear disaster. And a nation that is strong, a nation that is confident that it is right does not have to resort to returning insult with insult. We can be confident of ourselves. [Applause.] But turning to firmness, I know there are those who suggest that possibly the United States is too firm, possibly we should be more flexible in accepting the proposals that those in the Communist world make. And again may I say it is because we are for peace and for freedom that we are firm because we know that the way to war and the way to surrender is through appeasement, through taking on face value those proposals that are not going to be kept and that will result in the end in strengthening the positions of the enemies of freedom and in weakening our own. Then another point that I would like to make tonight with regard to this factor that I have called a concern for the problems of others. This is something which applies here at home. It is something also that applies in our relations with our countries abroad and it is something which is essential if we are to win the battle for peace, for freedom, and to win that battle without a war. Let me explain it in this way. First of all, it is not enough if the free world is to be the example that it should be and if America is to be the example of freedom that it should be to the rest of the world that we simply hold on. It is not enough that we point to the fact which is the fact that we are the strongest nation, the richest nation in the world today, that our people have the highest standard of living, the greatest freedom that people have ever enjoyed in the history of the world. We must constantly work to make this country better, not just for ourselves but to make it better for those less fortunate than we are. Let me use a specific example which will mean a great deal to any person who has attended Whittier College. We hear a lot those days about the problem of prejudice and discrimination and here at Whittier we do not know prejudice and discrimination. This is one of the great features of this college. I think all of us would agree. But sometimes you hear this problem of prejudice and discrimination being spoken of as a southern problem. I want to tell you what it is. It isn't a southern problem; it's a national problem. Other people say the problem of prejudice and discrimination is a legal problem. This is something that the people down in Washington ought to pass laws to solve and laws will help. But it isn't a legal problem primarily; it's a moral problem. And other people say this is a Government problem; but it isn't a Government problem. It's a personal problem. And what I'm meaning to say by that is this: In every part of this country we have prejudice. In every part of this country we have discrimination. And the only way it's going to be dealt with is for each individual American to recognize this very great truth, that prejudice hurts us abroad, that prejudice saps our strength at home and that we individually must assume the responsibility for removing it, removing it so that a hundred years after Lincoln America can realize the great objective of equality of opportunity for all of our people regardless of what their background may be. [Applause.] This is a personal problem. And as I say that this is a personal problem, I mean that each of you when you deal with this problem in your communities, in your hearts, you help America and you help her be the example that we want of freedom and justice for all the world to see. This brings me now to another point that I would like to make with regard to America's position in the world. You often hear, I am sure, of our programs abroad in the field of assistance to the newly developing countries of Africa and Asia and to some of those in Latin America, and oftentimes you have heard this assistance cast solely in terms of how it helps America, that it is necessary to help these countries because if we don't the Communists will help them. And this is true. Therefore, it's in our self-interest to help them, to keep the Communists out of them, because if the Communists take this part of the world, they will have the balance of power in the world. And a case can be made, certainly, from the standpoint of our selfish national interest for the assistance that America provides for these countries abroad. But let me say something else. That position isn't enough for America today and it isn't worthy of our traditions as a country. It isn't enough that it isn't worthy because put yourself in the positions of these people. They are proud people. Or they may be poor and most of them certainly are. But they don't want to be treated simply as pawns in a struggle between two great powers - the Communist world and the free world. And America has a great tradition, a great tradition from the time of our beginning, of concern for those who may not have freedom and who want it, of concern for those who may be living in poverty and have suffered disaster and have concern to the extent that we will help them -why? - not for selfish reasons but because we want to help them, not because it's for our own self-interests but because it's right. [Applause.] I say to you today that if in our national posture we could present to the world the picture of a country, of an America, yes, that is interested in defending our own freedom, in building the citadels of freedom around the world, but also a nation which from the time of its beginning and today and in the future will stand for the right of people everywhere to enjoy what we have, the right to choose our governments, the right to have an opportunity to develop our own lives without having ideas imposed upon us by a foreign power. And now if I could turn finally to one other subject, one which is very close to my heart and I am sure also to yours. I have spoken of these specific things because they do relate to my background here at Whittier and to the background of many of you who have known this community and having known it have learned to love it as I have. I speak now of where we go from here, where this Nation goes and of the responsibility that each of us as a citizen has to see that America is worthy of the trust and of the love of millions throughout the world for whom America is the hope of the world. Let me put it this way. You often hear it said that as far as America is concerned what we need is a President who will point the way, what we need are leaders in Washington who will know who the enemies of freedom are, know how to deal with them and develop the policies that will be effective to meet them. But, as I said in Chicago, this is not enough. And speaking to my friends in my own community and in my own State, let me reiterate that that is not enough. That would be enough in a country ruled by a dictator but in a free country we need the best effort of all of our people in our jobs, as students, in whatever activities that we have, because unless we have the best effort of all of our people, America is not going to live up to the responsibilities that she faces in the world today. And let me tell you what the stakes are. The stakes are freedom for America, freedom for the whole world, freedom for civilization and peace as well. We can win. We can win the peace. We can win the battle of freedom against tyranny. We can do these things but we can't do it just with a President and a Vice President and Members of Congress who believe in these things. We can do it only with a whole nation united and dedicated to the great principles and ideals of America. [Applause.] When I left Whittier College 26 years ago in the heart of the depression, there was no chance, even if we had been able to develop a program that would keep peace, there was no chance that we could win the battle against poverty and hunger and disease in the world. Today, just 26 years later, looking ahead in the next 10 years, there is a chance that that can be done. Because of the developments of our scientists we now find that if we can keep the peace, if we can develop a united effort, not only in America but throughout the world, that we can use the great resources of the world that have been untapped by our scientific research to wage a winning battle against tyranny and disease and misery and want every place in the world. This is what we can do and this is America's mission. This is what we must do. And this I say to you tonight is the reason why I am so honored to be here and to speak to my own friends, the people who know me the best, and to say to you that I only hope that I can be worthy of my heritage in attempting to provide the leadership not just for my party, because this is bigger than any party, and not just for this Nation, it's bigger even than this Nation, but the leadership for the causes of all mankind. But that leadership can be provided only if you, too, give the best that you have to this great cause. And so in conclusion, Mr. Chairman, again may I say, we will have many meetings during the course of this campaign. We will speak in all of the 50 States and we will see thousands and thousands of people and speak to millions on television. But there will be none which will stay with us in our hearts more than this one. And we thank you for coming tonight. We thank you for coming, for listening as courteously as you have, and I just want to say that the ideals that this college represents, this community, this audience, the ideals you believe in are worth fighting for. They're worth working for and, as far as I am concerned, I pledge to you that in the months ahead and in the years ahead if I am given the opportunity, that I will devote all that there is in me, my whole life, which comes from this community, to the cause which you believe in, the cause of a world of peace, of freedom, of justice for all. It is this pledge I make to you, my friends in my own community, and I thank you again for making it possible for me to be here in the capacity that I now have. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Governor QUINN. It is now my great privilege to introduce to you the Vice President of the United States, who has been a great Vice President and who will make a great President of the United States, Richard M. Nixon. Vice President NIXON. Governor Quinn, Secretary Seaton, Senator Fong, and our friends here in Hawaii, I want you to know how much my wife, Pat, and I particularly appreciate your coming out today and welcoming us on this very beautiful and, I understand, very typical Hawaiian day. I could only say that as we stand here, our regret is that we have to return to the mainland so soon, but we hope that in the next 2 days we will have the opportunity to meet and greet just as many of the citizens of our newest State as we possibly can. As I stand here, I naturally tend to think of the times that we have visited Hawaii before. This is actually the fifth time that I have come to this State as formerly the Territory of Hawaii. The first time nobody knew much about it except the Navy because I passed through here on my way home after having been overseas in the Solomons not on a ship but on land. I was here for only 1 night and what I remembered about that 1 night in Hawaii in 1944 was that I had the first hot shower, the first fresh eggs, the first fresh milk that I had had in 14 months, and believe me, I loved Hawaii ever since. Since that time, I came back again in 1952, with Taft. We had a marvelous visit. We were then in the Senate We went to virtually all of the islands and we stayed 10 days and, incidentally, it was the longest vacation we had had in the 14 years we had been in Washington. After that, in 1953, when we were traveling around the world, in 1956, when we were again traveling around the world, we had 2 delightful days on each of those occasions and now this time. Many of you may have forgotten but when I was here last in 1956 I made a very rash statement. I said, "I shall not return to Hawaii until it is a State," because I felt that surely in that session of Congress it would become a State. I could not return in 1957 when I might have wanted to and did want to, but I can return today because Hawaii is a State and I just want to say this: Whatever happens this November, I am going to come back to Hawaii with Pat every time I can, either officially or unofficially, in the years ahead. [Applause.] In meeting the president of the chamber of commerce, I told him you don't need a chamber of commerce for Hawaii. It is such a wonderful place that people will know about it all over the world without any advertising whatever. But now if I might just say one serious note before we move on down through the clay, for those of you who have so graciously come out to welcome us, Governor Quinn referred to my speech of acceptance in Chicago. I was trying to speak the national purpose but I was really speaking for what I believe is the faith, of what I believe is in the heart of doctrines and impersonal government or nations, but of the people of America, the people of all of the States of America, the people of Hawaii, of course, included. I want to tell you today that as we move into these next 3 months which will decide the leadership of this country for the next 4 years that whatever your political affiliations may be I hope and I know you will study the issues and listen to the candidates and make the decisions that you believe will best serve the interests of your State and your country and the interest of free men throughout the world, because I am convinced as I stand here that the leadership that America provides in these years of the 1960's will determine whether we have peace in the world and whether we have freedom not only for ourselves but for people everywhere. In speaking of people and freedom, there are just two things I would like to say. We are in a race today, a great battle between the forces of bravery on the one side and the forces of freedom with which we are associated on the other and in this battle it is not enough for us to be satisfied with what we have, it is not enough for us simply to hold the line against those who assault the citadels of freedom, if we are to survive we must move forward. In other words, we must win the battle for freedom, not just hold the line against communism within the battle for freedom for aU the peoples of the world. [Applause.] And to win that battle, it means we must not only have a President and Members of the Cabinet and Members of the Senate and Governors and other leaders who are dedicated to that cause, but it means that 180 million Americans must feel it deeply in their hearts, that they must work for the victory of freedom as the Communists work for the victory of communism, and that is the message I bring to you. I bring it to you today because I believe it, because I have seen what the Communists do, and what they are trying to do to all the world, and I know that we can win, but we can win only if we not only have great military strength and great economic strength but we can win only if our faith is greater than theirs, if our will to win is greater than theirs, if we will work harder, if we will outlast the enemies of freedom, and this is my message on that score. Now a word about the fight for peace. By our strength we maintain the peace by deterring aggression - our military strength. Also, as far as peace is concerned, we must recognize that in the end we are not going to have a world of peace until it comes from the hearts of people everywhere. You hear of good will trips spoken of in derogatory terms in some quarters today because people say there were riots in Caracas, there were riots in Tokyo; why should we have the President and the Vice President and other officials of our Government go abroad when there is a possibility that the enemies of freedom may stir up the people to have riots against them? My answer is that that is just the reason that we should do it, because the reason the Communists stir up this trouble is because they know that our message of peace and friendship and freedom is getting through, and I say that we in this country must not allow them to cut off the communications with the freedom-loving and the peace-loving people of this world on both sides of the Iron Curtain. We must carry this message around the world, and what is the message, and that brings me right back to where we began. You have a wonderful phrase in Hawaii, "aloha." The spirit of aloha is what America needs to present to the world, the spirit of aloha. [Applause.] And by the spirit of aloha I mean the example to all the world that people can live together in friendship, recognizing the dignity of men and women regardless of their background and Hawaii is the finest example of that for the whole world to see. That is why, when people wrote to me when statehood was granted, people from Hawaii said, "Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your support of statehood." My answer to them was that, of course, the people of Hawaii were glad to have statehood but it was for America, it was for the people of the United States, it was for us the great privilege because, by having a wide interest in the State and a member of the United States, and the 50th State, we are giving an example to all the world that the spirit of Aloha, of the recognition of the decency of men and women regardless of their backgrounds, of equality of opportunity, that that recognition lived in the heart of the whole United States and of all people. And, so, in conclusion, may I say again, thank you for giving to the rest of the States and thank you for allowing the United States to present to the world the spirit of Aloha and the cause of peace and freedom will win and it will win because you have it and we have it in our hearts. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. This is the first time I have been in the throne room and received such a welcome as this. My wife, Pat, and I will carry it with us all the days of our lives. We have been in many countries and many places around the world but none will remain in our minds and in our hearts more than this, and I can only say, hearing you sing makes me think that everybody in Hawaii has a beautiful voice. I only hope that we can carry the music of Hawaii in our hearts as we travel throughout the United States and throughout the world because that spirit of music through which you convey your feeling of affection and friendship for those who come among you is something that the world needs, and for that we thank you. We thank you from our hearts.
Vice President NIXON. Bill, Jimmy, and all of you in Hawaii, this is certainly a very great moment for us to stand on the steps of this historical palace to greet so many people on this beautiful day and I can only say in answer to what the Governor of Hawaii said in introducing me and Pat that as we come here for our first visit to a State other than the one she was born in and the one I was born in, California - for the first visit to the State in what will be a long campaign, the new State of Hawaii, we know that there will be other great moments but none that will exceed the welcome that we have had in Hawaii and we thank you for that. [Applause.] I am particularly honored that we had the opportunity to go to the throne room and for a few moments to understand, to appreciate the culture, the tradition, the history of this State. I know sometimes these days we hear that all that sort of thing does not mean very much. We hear that we should only think of the future or the present and forget the past because those things that are in the past simply hold us back. Let me say that certainly in this great new State as in my State of California and Pat's State of Nevada as well as in our whole country, while in our Nation we are a progressive people, that we should never forget that true progress, the greatest progress, is built on the sound foundation of what our fathers have left us, in the tradition that we received it, and it is well for us to be reminded of those traditions, to be reminded of them on such an occasion as this, and for that reason I appreciate this opportunity to spend these few moments here to go over the background of this State, the traditions of which the people of this new State can be immensely proud. If I could, in a moment, relate back to our present situation in the world, I would like to say that we think of the contests in which we are engaged in the Communist world as being one primarily of the strength of our arms, the strength of our economy, and most of those, of course, are immensely important and absolutely essential, but we must also remember that above all the contest in which we are engaged today, the contest that we, the people of the United States, what we do, will result in what comes out of these years ahead, but above all it is a test not just of arms and not just of economic strength, it is a test of faith. It is a test of what we believe. It is a test of how deeply we believe in the ideals that have made America great. And sometimes when we hear that we should not have so much talk about patriotism in the old jingoistic sense, sometimes when we hear Fourth of July oratory downgraded in school or other in speaking of something of the past, just let me say this: I have seen those who represent the Communists around the world. Their law, in my opinion, as far as their belief is concerned, their ideas that they would impose upon us and other people would be slavery to all the world. But there is one thing you have to give them credit for: They believe. You see that belief in their eyes, and you hear it in their voices, and you feel it as you meet them and debate them in the great problems of the world. And, my friends, here in Hawaii we Americans must believe because we have something great to believe in, something that is for the whole world because freedom belongs not to just us alone, not to just those who agree with us. But we must believe that freedom must grow and we must work for the victory of freedom for all people just as the Communists are working for the victory of communism. [Applause.] I say, finally, today that when we hear, if we do, that there are dangers all over the United States from some charge that our military are second place, that our economy is second rate, that our scientists are a failure, that our education is not as good as that in other lands, let me say that true patriotism and true loyalty must be critical of our country insofar as criticism is justified because whenever there is anything wrong with the country we want to correct it and make it better. But when we criticize the things that are wrong, let's never forget the things that are right and let's not forget that America today is the strongest nation in the world militarily; that they are the strongest nation [applause] in the world economically; but most of all, let's never forget that our ideals, the ones that come from our bodies, our ideals that are immortal and they belong not only to us but to all mankind, let's have faith, let's never let history record that this battle was lost, if it is lost, and I don't believe it will be, not because we were weak economically but because we were weak in our faith. So may I say, Governor, again, the moment is this when we have been able to favor the tradition, the culture, the history of this beautiful new State, it is one that makes us realize and look to our past, a proud past, a great State, a great ideal, and I can only add what I said at the airport, that Hawaii brings to the United States a great lesson which the United States must carry to all the world. We want freedom for the world but we want it without a war. We want victory without war, and that means we must have peace and to have peace we must have understanding and the way to convey understanding to the world is by our example here. There is no better understanding in the world, no better example of understanding than in Hawaii. How to live together and how to work together, how here you have a shining example of equality of opportunity for all and recognition of the dignity of man regardless of what his background may be. It is that example which we need because I have traveled the world and I know there is nothing harder to explain abroad than the * * * and to have somebody point to the practice of anybody at home, and Hawaii gives us the finest example of that in that respect. So I conclude by saying, Hawaii, our 50th and newest State brings to America understanding at its best, recognition of the dignity and equality of man at its finest, and through you and through America, our message to the world as we work for peace with freedom will be the spirit of Aloha and that is where I leave you today. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Senator FONG. It is my distinct honor, great privilege, to present to you the young man who has come up from grocery boy to become Vice President of the United States, and whom I know is going to be President of the United States. Dick Nixon. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. Well, Hiram, I am very, very honored to be here in your neighborhood among the people that know you and among those that, having known you, gave you such wonderful support in your campaign for the U.S. Senate. And I, of course, would like to think that this crowd is here because I'm here, but I know different. [Applause.] I know they're here because you're here, and I'm awfully happy to have you on my side, believe me. And may I say, too, that I want to apologize for our being a bit late, but we have a press bus traveling with us and we've had a little difficulty getting it through the traffic, even though we've had a motor escort along. And we appreciate your standing here and waiting for us, but let me tell you this: I don't feel particularly sorry for you because I can think of nothing more pleasant than standing in the gracious, soft sun of Hawaii - as you have. [Applause.] Now, if I can be heard above the leis, may I say that I deeply appreciate not only your presence but the remarks that Hiram has made about Pat and about me. I think sometimes that when you think of people in high government positions there is a tendency to think of us as being apart from you, when actually, of course, we are one of you. And as I stand here and I look at this splendid shopping center, I naturally do have a tendency to think of the days I was growing up. I give the credit (as Hiram very properly did) to Pat, because I took very good advice when I was graduated from law school. I remember I had a professor of law the first year, when all the young men came in, bright-eyed, bushy-tailed, thinking they were going to go out and make great successes in the world. He said: "Now, gentlemen, I've going to give you some advice. If you forget everything else you learned in the law, remember this: marry for money and practice law for love." [Laughter.] Now, I did both. I married for love, but in the early days when I was practicing law, Pat was teaching. Now she can't teach, at least not in school for money, but believe me, I'm awfully glad she could do that eighth grade arithmetic because I couldn't and certainly for our oldest, Tricia, who will be going into the ninth grade next year, and our youngest, Julie, the fact that Pat could still help them with that homework meant that I could do the Government's work while she was doing the homework. And so, I give advice to all of you who may be going into political life: It helps to marry a teacher because it can be very handy in the years ahead. The only trouble is that when you marry a teacher it takes them from the work they do. And I can think of nothing, nothing which is more important, than the work that our teachers do. When I think, for example, of the small amount of time that I can spend with our two girls (and we'd like to spend more, but when you travel around the world and you campaign and make speeches and work late in an office you hardly know how old they are and you have to ask them sometimes what happened in the last year since we saw them) - and then you realize that to put those young people, your children, the most precious things in your life, to put them in the hands of teachers for far more than the time you spend with them - I think we ought to give a hand to all the teachers today, not just to Pat - how about it ? [Applause.] Now, if I could just talk briefly on the election that is coming up, what it means, and what I would like for you to think about in these next 3 months. Ordinarily, when you hear of somebody running for political office, and I think you would expect me to talk this way, you hear him or her (as the case might be) lay out the reasons why you should support that individual, who is talking, for the office he seeks. I am not going to tell you today why I am the man who should hold the highest office in this land. That is a decision which you must make, and that is a decision which we as Americans will all abide by. I happen to believe that this country is a Nation of destiny. I happen to believe in the good sense of the American people and I think through the years, in selecting our Presidents, they've done really a remarkable job for the country. We've had some very great Presidents in our history, some of them have been members of my party and some of them have been members of the other party, but the decision must be yours, and the kind of a leader the country needs cannot be determined by me, it can't be determined by my opponent, but it has to be determined by millions of Democrats and Republicans and independents throughout this country. The important thing is: Determine it on the basis of the issues - not the personalities; not the party label - but the issues. What do you think America needs? What do you think your family needs? What do you think the world needs at this point? Then measure us against those needs and you will do the best job for America. And in that connection, may I say that as I stand here and I think of the store in which I grew up, I know that probably uppermost in the minds of most of the housewives here is a very simple problem: It isn't the Federal budget or it isn't Governor Quinn's State budget, but it's the family budget. You go in there and whether you're buying ground beef (I used to grind hamburger as a youngster and was pretty good, too, not too much fat and no pork in it, real good ground beef and it was only 25 cents a pound then, too, but it's a little higher now) - I know when you go into the store, a housewife is thinking of buying the specials, because you realize - particularly as your family gets a little bigger, that, unless you do, you're not going to be able to meet that budget at the end of the month. Now what does that have to do with what we do in Washington? Simply this. It's very easy for a public official to come before you and tell you that all the problems you have are going to be solved by what he's going to promise to do for you in Washington. In effect, he says: "We'll do this, we'll do that, we'll do this." What he doesn't tell you many times is that every dollar he spends in Washington comes right out of your pockets, and that every time we spend an unnecessary dollar in Washington, every time we add an unnecessary dollar to the Federal budget, it makes it harder for you to balance the family budget. I'll tell you why I say this. There are some very important expenditures for the Federal Government to make for our national defense and that must come, above everything else, for our highways, for our schools, and all of these areas in which you are interested. But never forget this, that we also owe an obligation to the taxpayers of this country not to spend a dollar that we don't need to, because as we save money there it means that you will be able to go in that store and make the ends meet at the end of the month. And that's why I don't come before you and tell you that we're going to solve all your problems in Washington, because if I did I would be working not in your interests but against your interests. It's a lot easier to make promises, but it certainly is more responsible and better for you if we only do those things that need to be done and leave for you the right to choose as to how you spend your own money. Now, if I could go to another point in speaking of matters of what we do for America. I, of course, am very proud to be a member of the Eisenhower administration. I happen to believe that President Eisenhower will go down in history as one of the great Presidents, not only because he brought the Nation peace, not only because we have enjoyed the greatest prosperity of any 8-year period in the history of this country, not only because he's restored dignity and integrity to the conduct of the Nation's business in Washington, D.C., I think he will go down as a great President because he is a great man. But let me say that while I think his record - our record - is a wonderful one, I don't believe we should just stand on it. I think a record's not just something to stand on, but something to build on. I come from California and you in Hawaii are like us in California, you are of the West and we, in the West, believe in progress. And so we must move forward, there is work to be done and jobs to be done in America; there are cities to be revitalized; there are better schools to be built, better health for our older people. These can come, but these things can come with the right kind of leadership in Washington, and I can only say that I know what it means; I know what it means to live in a family of modest means and I can assure you that certainly your interests will come first in our administration as we build the better America of the future. And the last thing I have to say today is the most important of all. You know, the most moving thing about this crowd, I may say, is not the older people that are here - all of you, you can vote - but the young people. And these young people, my two daughters, your boys and girls, what we want for them is a better life than we had, a life where they have an equal chance to make their way ahead, to become Senator or Governor or Vice President or the wife of the Vice President, as the case might be; we want all that for them, but we also want above everything else (and I say this just after having gone to Pearl Harbor and leaving a wreath there at there at the Arizona), the most important thing is that our young people grow up in a world of peace with freedom, the most important thing of all. [Applause.] And we can have that, we can have that kind of a world, but it's going to take the best leadership America can produce, leadership that will keep America strong militarily - second to none in the world - and that must come first; leadership that will be firm diplomatically - with no apology for keeping the intelligence activities of this country so there will never be another Pearl Harbor as far as America is concerned. [Applause.] It means also - it means also waging the battle for peace with the same determination and dedication that you wage a battle to win the war, and that means fighting for freedom, not just to keep it for ourselves because that isn't enough, but to expand it for the people throughout the world. But remember: This world is not just a static world, it changes, and the Communists are attempting to impose and extend communism and slavery throughout the world. It isn't enough to stand pat where we are, to defend what we have; we must fight to extend freedom throughout the world; this kind of leadership is essential if we're going to have a world of peace. [Applause.] And it is necessary, too, that we convince the peoples of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain, both sides, that we believe in peace, that we believe in justice, that we believe in the dignity of man and the equality of opportunity for all - regardless of background, religious, racial, color, whatever the case might be. And that is why I have said in each appearance I've made in Hawaii and I say it today, that what we need in waging peace in the world is more of the spirit of aloha throughout the world today. [Applause.] And so, may I thank you for standing here and waiting so long, for listening so patiently, and may I just say as a final word that for a miner's daughter born in a tent city in Ely, Nev. - for the son of a - not a supermarket operator but a very small country store, born in Yorba Linda, Calif., and growing up in Whittier - to stand here in front of a crowd in the 50th State of the Union is as proud a moment as I can imagine. And I only hope that whatever happens this November that between now and then, and thereafter, that we will be worthy of the faith and confidence that our party has placed in us and that we will be worthy of the traditions of America. And remember, all of you, the American dream is not just a dream, it does come true - Hiram Fong's life proves it, and my life and Pat's life proves it, too. Thank you very much. [Applause.] Senator FONG. (Introduces Vice President Nixon to the chairman of the rally and to the city and county clerk.) Mr. Vice President, I want to thank you very, very deeply - from the bottom of my heart - in behalf of all of these people here for the very, very inspiring message you have given to us. You make us feel very good because we have tried to live the life that you say that we should and all the people of the world should. We thank you for coming to this fifth district, we thank you for doing us this very, very great honor; we thank you for giving us a lot of "face." Let's give Dick Nixon and Pat a big hand, [Applause.] Vice President Nixon. Hiram, all I can say after that - I'm going to take him with me to introduce me around the country. Senator FONG. Now, only 1 minute more. This can only happen in Hawaii. Fruitgrower [garbled] says he's got a big pomelo which is the symbol of blessing and good luck and long life and everything, and he wants to present it to the Vice President. FRUITGROWER (garbled). Mr. Vice President, I am honored and privileged to be allowed by our esteemed Senator, Hiram Fong, to present you with a symbol and a token of great blessing. This fruit - every Chinese home during Chinese New Year will display this reverently, and it is time from time immemorial, it is a slight token of great blessing, it is named "The Great Blessing." I have the greatest pleasure to present it to our next President of the United States. [Applause.] May I add that this fruit is grown in the playground of esteemed Senator Hiram Fong. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. You know, my friends, the next time that anybody tells you that America is a second-rate country, the next time that anybody tells you America has lost its sense of direction and purpose and value, just remember this moment. Because certainly this was in finest American tradition and I thank you very much.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much, Mr. Ewing. It is a pleasure to be here and to have the opportunity through this broadcast to know what some of the questions are that the editors and the people of Hawaii have on their minds and to also have the opportunity to speak to the people of our new State that I will not have a chance to meet in a rather busy 2-day schedule. The PRESS. I would like to ask the first question and then I will turn the rest of it over to you folks. I hope to come back from time to time but we have a rather busy, and, I think, very informative and pleasant hour ahead of us. Vice President, I was in Japan recently during the riots which preceded President Eisenhower's anticipated visit and I talked with a great many of our people there, including the military, both in Japan and in Korea, and I think a fair summary of the majority opinion among these people would be that if we should lose our military position in Japan then we would lose the Pacific bases and if we should lose the Pacific, we would lose Europe, and that would place us in an untenable world position. Would you care to comment on this as to how far your thinking goes in accord with this or in any other way that you would care to? Vice President NIXON. I agree completely with the appraisal of those to whom you referred. It is obvious that Japan at this time is the key to the Pacific complex and if the Pacific goes then our position in Europe and in the whole world is endangered and may become untenable. I think the proof that this is true is that the Communists are making an all-out effort to interfere with our position in Japan, to run us down. They wanted to block the President's visit because they know as far as the great majority of the people of Japan are concerned that they were finally toward the United States and friendly toward the President and for that reason they stirred up the Communist minority as well as some who were not Communists toward the riots which resulted in stopping the Presidents visit. I would only say in conclusion that, since this is their object, that we in turn must not be knocked off balance. We must not get discouraged. We must not allow what a minority did in blocking the President's visit to change our policy of one of working constantly for closer ties with Japan, with the people of Japan, with trade, and in every other way that we can. Japan needs us. We need Japan. We are both working for the same cause, the cause of freedom, and if we work together the Communists will not succeed in their efforts (1) to take over Japan, and (2) to take over the world. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, do you believe that these demonstrations in Japan were even primarily fostered by the Communists? Vice President NIXON. I would say this: The reports that I have received as far as these demonstrations were concerned were to the effect that the ones whom I would describe as the spear carriers, the ones who were stimulating them, were the Communists. It is true that participating in the riots were some people who were concerned about some Japanese internal politics. There were some who were opposed to the Kishi government. There were others who were neutralists insofar as their attitudes were concerned but going to the 2 to 3 days immediately preceding the cancellation of the visit, we find that the non-Communist elements, for the most part, withdrew from the demonstrations. They could see that it was giving a bad name to the Japanese people generally. They did not want to be associated with the Communists in it, and the last 2 or 3 days, those violent demonstrations certainly were, in my opinion, Communist inspired. I would say again that we would be wrong in assuming that all of the opposition to the visit was as a result of Communist activity, but certainly the key to the blocking of the visit in the 2 or 3 critical days before the decision of the Kishi government was made, the key to it at that time were the extremist Communist elements and not the neutralist elements, and the anti-Kishi elements in the Communist Party The PRESS. Since the Far East and Japan are of considerable importance to the United States, if you are elected President, would you consider Hawaii as a potential source of ambassadors and State Department technicians because of our close relationship to the Far East? Vice President NIXON. I most certainly would. May I say I have some very strong feelings about the appointment not only of ambassadors but the recruitment of personnel for our Foreign Service generally. I have been to most of the countries of Asia, excluding, of course, Communist China, and I have been to many of the countries of Africa as well. Looking at all of these countries, it is to the interests of the United States to have representation abroad from the United States which covers our whole population and to the extent that we can, if from the State of Hawaii where, fortunately, we do have representatives from the standpoint of their racial backgrounds, so many of the Asian people, these people to the extent possible should be recruited into the Foreign Service, and then sent to these countries as well as other countries. In that connection, may I make that last point particularly strong. I do not think that it is in the best American tradition, for example, to send one who might be of Japanese background, who happened to be in the State Department, just to Japan. He, of course, can do good work there, but he also might do good work in other Asian countries, and he also should be considered for posts in Europe and in Latin America. On the other hand, the whole point of my answer is, and I think this responds to your question, is that we need representation in our State Department not just of those who traditionally join us from the major colleges, primarily in the eastern part of the United States - and this is nothing against them, because they are extremely able - but we need representation from the whole country, and we need representation from all of the racial groups who enrich our country. If we have that kind of representation, it will strengthen us abroad. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, getting back to Japanese hostilities, some of the people in our country made capital of that in a political way. What effect, if any, do you think that will have on the campaign one way or the other? Vice President NIXON. I would say in the first instance, the fact that some people did make capital of it in a political way hurt the Republican cause, it hurt the administration, because it led people to believe that we were to blame for what the Communists and other extreme elements were doing. Let me say in commenting on your question that I do not question the right of our political opponents, or anybody for that matter, to say that the administration may have been wrong in its appraisal of the situation, that we could or should have been something else insofar as our policy toward Japan is concerned, but I do say that it does not make sense to blame ourselves for what Communists did to me in Caracas, for example, and for what they did in blocking the President's visit to Japan. I think what we have to do here is look at our policies to see where they may have contributed to the results. As far as our policies toward Japan are concerned, I think that the record has been a good one. I think it has been remarkable, really remarkable, that in the short space of time since the war ended when Japan acquired its own self-governing status, that Japan has developed the free institution which it had never had before, it had developed political democracy, freedom of speech and press, and had grown economically and recovered economically to the extent of that. It is one of the most exciting stories since the war. Now we must not allow this one incident to make us lose face in the policies that we have pursued up to this time. I do not mean that they are all right and I do not mean that they are not subject to criticism, but I say that when those who criticize what happened as far as these riots are concerned, when they do, I think they ought to indicate where they think the policy ought to be changed. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, many of us here in the islands have very strong with Asia and we are especially concerned with the growth of communism in Red China. If you are elected President, will you make any substantial change in our China policy? Will you extend recognition to Red China? Vice President NIXON. I most certainly would not. I believe it would not be in the interest of the United States; it would not be in the interest of freedom, and it would not be in the interest of peace for us to extend recognition to Red China or to change our position of opposition to the admission of Red China to the United Nations. There are a number of reasons for this. I can summarize simply by saying that Red China does not qualify to be admitted to the United Nations which, in its charter, is made up of peace-loving nations. Red China defies the United Nations in Korea at the present time. It is engaged in activities with regard to India and other U.N. members which certainly are provocative and certainly not in the interest of peace. Insofar as its attitude toward the United States and other nations is concerned, Red China is not following the policy which is designed to promote friendly relations in the traditions of the U.N. If, at this time, we should change our policy toward Red China and recognize them or allow their admission to the U.N. by dropping our opposition to it, I think it would set in motion a chain reaction which would mean that all of Asia would fall into the Communist orbit, or under Communist influence. Now does this mean that the policy will never be changed? The answer is, "Of course not." The policy can change and the Red Chinese Government can change and become a civilized member of the world community, but until it does that, we cannot make the mistake of recognizing Red China. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, to change the theme a little bit, Cuba has an important economic impact as far as Hawaii is concerned. The present administration has stated that it will not tolerate the Communist satellite in Cuba. The present policy is based pretty much on economics if any controls are made now. Do you anticipate that it may become necessary to use more stringent measures if the situation becomes more acute? Vice President NIXON. It is difficult at this time to predict what may happen in Cuba, particularly when the economic measures that we have taken - our action for example in the sugar quota - have not had time to have an appreciable effect. I would say that I would hope and at this time I would think that action other than economic and political would not be called for to bring about a change in the attitude of the Cuban Government. In this connection, I think we have to realize that the United States must avoid at all costs any appearance of attempting to dictate to the Cuban people the kind of government that they want, but we do think they have a right to choose, and this they have not had and do not have under the Castro government. We do think, too, that the Cuban people, as far as the revolution is concerned, had good reason to have a revolution and what we believe is that they should be able to realize the decent objectives of that revolution but to realize those objectives in freedom. This is our course of action and this is our policy. I think that more and more of the other countries in Latin America recognize what is happening in Cuba and that the pressure of public opinion throughout the Americas will continue to grow and that that pressure cannot continue to be resisted by the Government of Cuba. Certainly, in summary, I would say the United States cannot tolerate a Communist takeover in Cuba, and I would only say that I do not want to look forward beyond what we are presently doing. I think we have taken very strong measures and we hope and we believe that may be effective. The PRESS. What, in your opinion, will be the real issue in the 1960 national election? Vice President NIXON. Of course, we are pretty far away from November 8, and I realize that after my first day of full campaigning here in Hawaii, and I know that I have a lot of interesting days but a lot of hard days ahead. I have always found that it is very difficult to predict even 4 weeks before an election what issue will primarily affect the voters on election day. As of this time, I would say that the issue that is uppermost in the people's minds, as I travel about the country, the issue they are thinking about the most is international. They are trying to judge the two parties and the two candidates on whether they believe one party or one man or the other can best keep the peace and further the cause of freedom as the leader of the United States and the free world. This is the issue which seems to predominate the thinking of most people. On the other hand, I would say the issue on which you will find the greatest disagreement between the candidates and between the two parties will hot be in the international arena but in the domestic arena, in the domestic area. By that I mean that here in the field of economic thinking, in the field of what the role of Government should be in promoting progress and economic activities in this country, that the difference between the candidates and the parties on this issue will be the one in which we are the furthest apart. On the one side, if we look at the platform offered by the Democratic Party at Los Angeles, it was a platform, I believe, which departed very far from the principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, the traditional Democratic principles. It was one that went all the way toward saying in effect that Federal Government is the answer to all problems and it went all the way in promising everything to everybody without promising, of course, to pay the bill, because the people have to do that. On the other hand, the Republican platform and the Republican position was one that recognizes that Government plays a very important part in producing social progress toward the United States and economic progress, but we recognize that the primary motivating power for progress in this country is not what the Federal Government does but what individuals do. We believe that every Federal Government action must begin with the individual, must begin with private enterprise, and that what we must do is to stimulate and encourage the activities of 180 million free Americans to the utmost in order to get the progress that we want, and that the Federal Government should then step in, whatever the field may be, only where the individual and the local governments and the State governments will not do the job. This, I think, is the fundamental difference between the two candidates and will be the subject of some pretty considerable debate during the course of the campaign. The PRESS. It seems to me that we Americans want to have our cake and eat it, too, that we want mote Government benefits, we want lower taxes, and yet we want to work less and get higher wages. How can we possibly compete with that in view against nations which are straining every effort to the utmost to increase their total production ? Vice President NIXON. It is true that to an extent we have developed - I say we, perhaps to the people this is not an accurate statement because many people do not feel this way - but certainly there are a number of people in our country who seem to have developed the idea or fallen into the error of assuming that you can work less and perhaps even pay less in taxes and that the Government can do more and more for you and that we can continue to compete with the rest of the world. This is not possible. I know that when I visited the Soviet Union, I was impressed by the fact that when I saw their factories and mines that in there, every one of them, there were signs that in one way or another urged the people on, as they put it, to work for the victory of communism. They are working. They are working long and they are working competitively. They have an incentive system over there which departs completely from the original Marxist theory of every one receiving according to his needs and producing according to his abilities. There the differential between what they pay the top producers and those who are not as effective at production is greater than it is in the United States. Now, does this mean that they are going to beat us? Does it mean they are more productive than we are? The answer is no, we are still way ahead of them, and we can continue to stay ahead, but we are going to have to remember that we are in a race and when you are in a race the only way to stay ahead is to move ahead. In the field of production, this means that the U.S. manufacturers and workers must recognize that they are not only competing with other manufacturers and workers in this country but they are competing with those in the Soviet Union and in Japan and in Europe. Unless we turn to what I think would be a completely irresponsible action and one which, in the end would be self-defeating, of raising huge tariff barriers around this country and trying to live apart from the rest of the world, I say again I do not believe this is possible. Unless we turn that way, the only answer is for us to compete, and this means more productivity from our factories, more efficiency on the part of management and more productivity on the part of labor as well. This is the only answer, as far as I can see. As far as the Government side is concerned, I would just like to say this. You know we often have the situation in this country where people running for public office go out and make speeches and they say, "I promise that I will do this or that or the other thing for you when I get in." What people have to think of whenever they hear such promises is simply this: They have to remember that they pay the bill. They have to remember that whenever a public official makes a promise as to what the Government is going to do for the people that he is not going to pay the bill, it is not his money - just a part of it is; he pays taxes, too - but it is not his money that is going to pay the bill but yours, and therefore I think we have to get this across to our people because if they want the Government to do more, they are going to have to pay more, and that is why I think it is essential that our people realize that if they want to have more of what they earn, and that means sending less to Washington for taxes, then they have to realize that the services the Government provides do come directly from what they pay. The PRESS. Referring back to the platform and direct differences on the domestic scene between candidates, I would like to refer to a quote yesterday in California when the version I have says that you indicated that Kennedy will have the support of major labor leaders because he paid the price he had to pay in his platform at the Democratic Convention. I have sort of a double-barreled question. In the first place, this is not entirely plain to me. In the first place, did you mean that Kennedy in some way dictated the Democratic platform on the subjects at least and, secondarily, do you think that a part of the price that Kennedy may have paid for some of his support was in his concentration through the McClellan committee on certain unions while ignoring others? Vice President NIXON. I would say, first, as far as the platform is concerned, I could say the same thing about the Democratic platform that I have said about the Republican platform. A candidate for the Presidency has to have a platform which represents his view. That is why I insisted, when I came to Chicago, that our platform be one that I could run on; that was consistent with my previous views and that represented the views that I thought had to be presented to the American people in the best interests of the people at this time. As far as Senator Kennedy was concerned, he was in exactly that same position in his convention. He is the candidate for the Presidency. He is the man who must interpret the party and the platform to the people, and he could have stopped anything in that platform that he did not agree with, I am sure, because he is a very, I would say, decisive man when it comes to getting his point of view adopted when he is going to be the candidate. Therefore, when we look at the platform, we have to assume that this is one that Senator Kennedy wanted, that he believes in, and he said so in his acceptance speech and that he intends to carry it out. Now what was the price that he paid as far as Mr. Reuther and others, Mr. McDonald and others, who have said they are going to endorse him are concerned? The price that he paid was to give them what they wanted, and this means that he insofar as the Taft-Hartley Act, the provisions of the Democratic platform which would emasculate the major provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act, very good ones as a matter of fact, I happen to believe - that would also take the Landrum-Griffin bill, which Senator Kennedy did previously support and vote for and would certainly emasculate provisions of that bill - that in every instance what he did was to give Mr. Reuther, Mr. McDonald, and the labor leaders who have endorsed him, the exact kind of platform, and he promised to give them the kind of legislation - that they want. Now why is this bad in my opinion? It is bad for this reason: Not because what Mr. Reuther and Mr. McDonald want is always bad; it is not, but because a President of the United States simply cannot owe his election and he cannot be the captive of any one segment of the economy. It would not be good for this country if the President was under the control of and owed his election to business or to labor or to any one segment because the President has to represent the people. As far as the labor leaders are concerned, while some of the things they stand for I would support, there are other things that I could not. For example, I do not believe that it is in the interest of union members to repeal those provisions of the law which protect union members from the excessive practices of some labor leaders, and this is exactly what I believe the carrying out of the Democratic platform would do. I think it is the responsibility of the President of the United States to stand for legislation that will protect union members from the excesses of their leaders and it will also protect the public from the excesses of either management or labor. In other words, a President has to be able to represent the people and not be in effect under the control of either labor or management. When you consider Senator Kennedy's position in this respect, it happens that the labor leaders like Mr. Reuther and Mr. McDonald do not give their support unless they get 100-percent support of their position by a candidate. I have refused to do that and I will continue to refuse to do it regardless of the political consequences, because if we have labor disputes, as we may have them in the next 4 years, the President has to be in a position where he can move in and use the great power and prestige of the office without being concerned from a political standpoint that he owes his election to one side or the other. He has to be able to speak up to the public at large. These are my views on the labor situation. I am sure as far as Senator Kennedy is concerned he would disagree and he will have the opportunity to express that disagreement both here and also in the country at large. As far as the question about the McClellan committee is concerned, charges have been made that Senator Kennedy or at least his brother, who was the executive director of that committee, were hard on the Teamsters and were not as tough, for example, on Mr. Reuther and other union leaders. I have not had an opportunity to appraise those charges. I can only say that certainly any investigation in this field should be directed toward the practices of all unions and for that matter management as well, because management has been guilty, too, of some work with the unions that certainly were not in the interests of the country and collusion, I should say, but certainly these investigations should be carried out without political advantage in mind. Understand, I have not had the opportunity to survey the situation to make the charge, but I do say that as far as Senator Kennedy's present position is concerned, the record is pretty clear. The reason that he has the support of certain union leaders is because they got from him what they wanted in their platform. The reason that I believe, incidentally, he will not have the support of a great number of union members is because I believe that union members recognize that they do need a President who will not take his orders from their leaders or any other leaders for that matter but will represent them and the whole country. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, here in the islands, The ILWU, under the presidency of Mr. Harry Bridges, is of some political significance. A spokesman for the ILWU said the other day that the 20,000 members of the ILWU will withhold their vote from Senator Kennedy. He did not indicate where this vote might go. I wonder if you have any feelings on this sort of block voting? Vice President NIXON. First of all, may I say that I do not believe and I think Mr. Reuther would agree as well as Dave McDonald, whom I know and worked with in the steel settlement, I do not believe there is block voting as far as unions are concerned. I believe, of course, that union members do look to what their leaders tell them and many of them may follow what their leaders tell them, but Americans are pretty independent people, and I find the farther west you get the more independent they are in their voting habits. Hawaii is somewhat like California where the party label means very little and they vote for the man rather than the party. That is my analysis of your elections out here. I think that is going to be true of union members whether it is the longshoremen, the CIO, the A.F. of L., or any of the other unions. [Note. Tape changed here.] The objective is one that cannot be realized until we get our farm economy in a lot healthier shape than we presently find it. Let me look at it this way. Let's look at the great major commodities like wheat and cotton, corn, the ones that are supported by so-called price support parity system. These commodities are in surplus. Why are they in surplus? Because the policies that were adopted during the war in order to encourage the farmers to produce more still are in effect and so our farmers who put in more acreage and who have grown more crops because their Government encouraged them to do so in wartime now find that they have surpluses overhanging the market which builds up the surpluses, the policy builds up the surpluses and at the same time drives down their farm income. Now it just would not be right under these circumstances for the Government to say, "Well, we are going to drop all these programs and let the farmer pay the brunt of farm prices," which, of course, would go right down to rockbottom if the surpluses were dumped on the market without any floor as far as parity protection from the Government was concerned. That is why the program that I have been supporting, and I am going to spell this out in a major speech early in the campaign, is one that will attempt to attack this surplus problem on a massive basis, attacking it on a massive basis in several ways One, to increase the markets abroad, not only the dollar market but also the humane market through better distribution of our surpluses through the United Nations to needy countries; through using more of these surpluses for disaster relief, storing them for that purpose, and through other means. I think it is essential that we attack that problem in that way so that we can get the surpluses off the back of the farmers so that the farmer, if he is going to have Government controls and Government subsidies taken away then he will at least have a fair chance to make a decent living and a decent income. On the other side of the coin, too, we believe that it is essential to support a program to take land out of production, through a so-called soil bank program - we already have one in effect - but I think this has to be increased to a great extent, at least double, so that we get the supply in balance with demand. I admit that all this requires money. I agree that all of this certainly is something that the poor consumer and the taxpayer may say, "Why do we have to pay the price for helping the farmer out of this trouble?" The reason is pretty simple. We put the farmer in this trouble. We put him in it by asking him to do this during the war, and after the war, for example when we had many contractors who had contracts to build ships and guns and everything else and then the war ended, we indemnified them, we indemnified them by canceling their contracts and paying them their losses called for by that cancellation. This very same principle, I think, ought to apply to our farmers, and I think the American people, once they understand it, will be willing to follow a policy which will attack this terribly tough farm problem on a massive basis and get it under manageable control. Once we do that, then the necessity for further Government controls and Government subsidies will be substantially reduced if not removed. The PRESS. Hawaii's economy depends very heavily on the military, It is our biggest industry out here. With the missile program developing and the cold war taking the turn it has taken toward fighting with missiles and so on, do you see any great cutback in Hawaii's position as a training base for military forces and ground forces such as we have at Schofield or the big naval base at Pearl harbor? Vice President NIXON. No, I do not. I believe that it is essential, of course, as I am sure you do, as I am sure the military leaders here in Hawaii would agree, that the United States constantly reexamine its military posture and take advantage of every technical breakthrough we can. We cannot deter the war of tomorrow by building up the weapons of the world yesterday. That is why the Polaris submarine and our new missiles and the like are so tremendously necessary in our arsenal of weapons to deter the Communists from launching an attack. On the other hand, we have to realize that we not only have the problem of trying to deter war on that scale; we also have the problem of what we call generally small wars. This means that we have to have conventional forces, ground forces, naval forces, and air forces which can move in in the Pacific or in other areas which may be under potential attack, move in to defend U.S. interests and free world interests. This simply means that the United States cannot be in the position where the only war we can fight and the only deterrent that we can use is the massive deterrent. We have to be in a position to be able to use the force that is necessary, the minimum force that is necessary to do the job that has to be done, and this means preparation for small war as well as for the big war. This also means money. That is why we cannot think at the present time in terms of tax reduction as distinguished from tax reform. We cannot think of tax reduction as long as our military posture has to remain at its present level or move up as new technological breakthroughs require increased expenditures. The security of this country must come before everything else, and certainly this is something I believe that both parties would stand for and certainly I stand for it. The PRESS. A few moments ago, you said we are in a race and we must compete and stay ahead particularly, I presume, with Russia. We are interested here in the East-West center that has been planned for Hawaii, and in our dispatches today we got a story saying that the Friendship University in Moscow, which was thought of after the East-West center was introduced in Congress is receiving 200 students on this September 1st and will eventually accept 4,000, and they are ready to start training them from Africa and from Asia and South America and to condition them to their way of life. Meanwhile, the bill authorizing the East-West center is now in Congress and the first $10 million increment for one-third of it has just been approved by the subcommittee and it is still there and there is great question whether it could be approved in the small session that we have left before Congress closes down. I would like to ask you what you intend to do or how aggressive you will be for an East-West center in the way of money and using your position if you are elected President. Vice President NIXON. You are on one of my pet subjects, and I hope I don't talk too long on this because I know you have some other questions. When I traveled to Hawaii in 1953, on my first trip around the world, I visited 19 countries in Asia and on that occasion I came back with a conviction, a conviction that has been underlined by my visits to Africa, to South America and to other parts of the world, that in this whole world struggle, the most effective instrument that we have, if we could pick one out in the ideological field that is more effective than others, it is in the field of exchange, exchange of persons, exchange of ideas at all levels. The Communists have recognized this, and they are bringing people from all of the Asian countries, to the extent they are able to, literally by the thousands to Moscow. I visited the University of Moscow while I was there. It is a very, shall I say, impressive place but they are bringing people there from all over the world to indoctrinate them in communism at a time that they will also give them some education. They go back not all of them converted Communists but certainly infected with the disease to a certain extent. Now, we simply have to be more imaginative, and we have to do more in this field than we have. I think that our programs for exchange today are inadequate. I think that we should do whatever can be absorbed in bringing people from other countries to the great universities and other places of learning in the United States. As far as Hawaii is concerned, it can play a magnificent role in this respect. The East-West center should have the funds necessary to complete it on schedule. With respect to the $10 million to which you refer, I was out today talking to the director and the president of the university, and I would say that I would think that the Congress would appropriate the $10 million. If this Congress does not act on this, I would assure you that if I have anything to say about how such funds are appropriated, I would say that it would be of the highest priority to complete this center and to continue to support it from the standpoint of the Federal Government, because there is nothing more in our interest than bringing people from abroad to the best possible atmosphere and in Hawaii they see American democracy, they see equality of opportunity, the ideal and the recognition and the dignity of man and they see it at its best, and I would like to see not only the 2,000 that are expected to come to the East-West center but many more coming to Hawaii as well as to our other States. The PRESS. Is there an essential difference between the Republican approach and the Democratic approach to the world problems? Vice President NIXON. In the field of world problems as distinguished from domestic problems, I do not think there are too many essential differences as yet. Those differences may arise during the course of the campaign. For example, Mr. Kennedy, of course, will be consulting with his advisers, and I will be studying the issues as well. For example, on what our attitude should be on the great issues on the attitude toward Asia, toward the problem of recognition of Red China and its admission to the U.N. While the platforms at present on that subject, for example, are somewhat alike, there might develop different approaches, a different new answer during the course of the campaign. But both of the candidates in both of the parties stand for strengthening our alliances with NATO and the other countries abroad; both stand for waging the nonmilitary aspects of the world struggle. The question really in the field of world affairs is more one of who has the experience, the decisiveness, the ability to do it best. I think it is more likely to be that question than basic disagreement as to what our objectives are, because I think we can say - and I want to make it very clear right here - that both of our candidates and all four of the candidates are people who stand firmly against the attempt of communism to rule the world and firmly for the cause of the United States and the cause of freedom. Our differences are perhaps in the means that we would use and in the abilities that we would have, and the people are going to have to determine that. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, Drew Pearson said yesterday that we are going to run against Khrushchev in this coming campaign. Do you feel he is going to be an important factor aside from facetiously? Vice President NIXON. I am glad you are describing Mr. Pearson as facetious. Seriously, as far as running against Mr. Khrushchev, I believe it is essential for the American people and the free world to have an understanding of the tactics and strategy of world communism. I do not think we have an adequate understanding of it today. I think we understand it in the military sense. We see them with their rockets and their nuclear bombs and their space vehicles and the like and we recognize that they present a challenge here. To a certain extent, we recognize that they are developing economically, but what Americans find difficult in recognizing is the insidious kind of aggression on which communism is embarking all over the world which is nonmilitary in character, aggression through propaganda which works the mind and through an economic offensive, softening up a nation for later aggression and then subversion throughout the world. Here what we have to recognize is that the free world needs to greatly expand its programs for information, for exchange of persons, for conveying our ideas through political and other means to the battlegrounds in Asia and Africa and South America where this struggle is being decided. Now, in order to do this adequately, we have to understand who our opponent is, what he thinks, how fanatical he is, and if this means that we have to talk about Mr. Khrushchev because he is the master of the world communism, its director, then I say the American people should hear about Mr. Khrushchev. I intend to discuss him in that sense. I do not, of course, intend to discuss him in any other sense, because he is not the one we are running against. This is a contest between Mr. Kennedy and myself, and I am sure Mr. Kennedy is against Mr. Khrushchev as well. I do believe and I emphasize again that it is the duty of the President of the United States to alert the American people to the danger of communism on the military side because we recognize that as we should but on the nonmilitary side where we don't recognize it and then to develop the programs which will beat the Communists in this area. In that connection, if I may add just one other thing which relates to an earlier point, the training of people in our Foreign Service and the like - I know many people have read "The Ugly American" and I know that got a lot of criticism by some people in Washington. My views on that book are a little different than some. I have seen every one of the individuals described in "The Ugly American" at one time or another in my travels abroad. If you take "The Ugly American," however, and if you say that generally applies to our State Department and other people abroad, you are absolutely wrong because the great majority of them are able, devoted public servants. On the other band, while I disagreed with the critics of "The Ugly American" in that respect, there is another respect where I disagree with those who think "The Ugly American" was right in its criticism of our policy. Those who think it was right, some of them, say the answer to our problems of representation abroad, of getting better people in the USIA and our economic missions and in our foreign policy missions - the answer is to simply have them all career people, have them trained in the languages and in the customs of the people to which they are accredited and then everything will be solved, but this is not the answer. There are many good career people abroad and the majority of them are splendid. But, on the other hand, it is not the knowledge of language, the knowledge of custom that is enough. What we need on the part of people who represent America abroad privately, publicly, and every other way is not just knowledge of language, knowledge of custom and tradition, and the like, but a devotion to American ideals, an understanding of what the Communist challenge is, and a determination and a zeal to outwork, outfight, and outlast them in this non-military battle. Nothing less will do, and what we have to do is to inspire in the people who represent us abroad and the people who go abroad in a private capacity a will to win. What I mean by "a will to win," in a battle of this type, you just cannot play not to lose. You have to play to win. And if we can do that, we will win because our cause is better. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, we have, of course, in Hawaii the most integrated of all the States. Do you think it would be a good thing for the country if all the States were integrated the way we are here and, if you do, have you any proposals for furthering that? Vice President NIXON. Do you mean integration in the sense of our school systems and the like, integrating the various racial and religious groups? The PRESS. Yes. Vice President NIXON. This is an objective certainly to which we should aspire in the United States. Here in Hawaii, the last of the 50 States, you have been perhaps foremost in recognizing the reality of the American dream, in making it come true insofar as integrating our various groups into our society. We have to recognize, however, that doing this throughout the Nation is not an easy task. I am glad that, for example, as far as our party is concerned, we have a program which does not deal with this problem in generalities but in specifics, and specifically we will make progress in removing discrimination and in combating prejudice throughout the world and throughout the United States. Basically, one thing I should say in that respect which we must never forget is that the reason that you have integration in Hawaii is not primarily because Government did it, but because it came first in the hearts of your people. It is not the responsibility of the next President of the United States, of any leader of our country, whatever position he holds, to attempt to build in the hearts of the American people the idea that this is not this whole matter of nondiscrimination, of fighting prejudice; this is not just a legal problem but a moral problem. It is not just a southern problem, it is a national problem. It is not a Government problem, it is a personal problem, and only when we get that kind of conception and understanding among our people are we going to be able eventually to make progress through the law toward the integration that we want as an American ideal. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, what is your plan and policy regarding foreign aid if you should become President Vice President NIXON. Speaking of foreign aid, we have two different parts of it, we have the military part of foreign aid, the mutual security - this is absolutely essential to maintain as part of our deterrent striking power - and then we have the economic part of foreign aid - technical assistance, loans and grants to countries in Asia, Africa, and South America, so that they can develop in freedom the progress that they are determined to have and will not have to turn to communism to get it. I feel that that is just as essential, if not more essential than the military. Unless we do continue to help these countries develop in freedom, they will turn to communism, and the cost will be infinitely greater in the years ahead. Foreign aid, I know, is not popular and it would be much easier for me to say how you could get rid of it, but the American interest, the interest of freedom, requires that our programs of technical assistance, of economic assistance, to countries abroad so that they will not have to turn to communism for progress, so that they can have progress with true freedom, that these programs are just as essential as supporting defense bonds for Pearl Harbor, supporting funds for the missiles and the airplanes, and our other defense activities. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, you spoke of the problem of Communist infiltration in other countries. This raises in my mind the question of the effectiveness of the Monroe Doctrine. Does this become enforceable only if Soviet troops land in a Latin American country or is there a point short of that, a point involving infiltration in which the Monroe Doctrine would be invoked? Vice President NIXON. You put your finger on one of the knottiest problems we have in the Government at the present time, how to handle, for example, the problem of Cuba. Certainly the Monroe Doctrine in its original concept was military and political in character, but we find today that it was thinking in terms of military aggression, I am sure, and because communism was not in the world scene then but today the greater danger is in this nonmilitary area, subversion, to which you refer, and I can only say that I believe the Monroe Doctrine does apply in that area as well but developing the means to apply it is another thing. In Cuba, of course, we are trying to develop political and economic means to stop communism from infiltrating in that area. The PRESS. If I am not mistaken, Mr. Vice President, you have taken more than one position in the past on the suspension of nuclear tests, but at any rate I am confused about what it is and would you tell me what your position is? Vice President NIXON. My position on nuclear tests, and I believe this has been a consistent position, is that those tests should be suspended at this time while we are negotiating with some chance for succeeding in negotiation. The moment it becomes clear, however, that the Russians are not intending to go forward with a test suspension with inspection, then the United States must resume tests. I believe, however, that until they have proved to the whole world and to us as well that there is no such possibility of such a test suspension, until they have done that, we should not resume tests and take the onus upon ourselves - and it would be an onus for blocking the possibility of making some progress toward not only test suspension but eventually disarmament with inspection. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, time is getting short here. Some of our reporters today in getting a reaction to your visit from Democrats came up with the suggestion from them that you only came to Hawaii because you were copying Mr. Kennedy and they were a little put out by that. What reason did you have for coming to Hawaii first? Vice President NIXON. I would say my answer to that question is that Mr. Kennedy is a very good campaigner and if copying him is bad, I would rather - but seriously, I think I had the idea of coming to Hawaii before he did, and I think this is going to be the closest election in recent political history in this country. I believe that Hawaii's three electoral votes might decide it, and that is why I am not only visiting Hawaii but I am going to every one of the 50 States between now and election day, and I am glad I got here first. The PRESS. Mr. Vice President, are you considered a liberal Republican or a conservative Republican? Vice President NIXON. I have found that the words "liberal" and "conservative" have been so distorted by recent usage that it would be difficult to answer that question categorically. In the field of foreign policy, I think most people would refer to me as a liberal because I have felt that we had to take a very affirmative stand for exchange in the field of economic assistance and the like, as I have described it. In the field of spending the people's money, I think I am labeled as a conservative because, as I answered the question a moment ago, while I believe the Federal Government must spend what is necessary to bring about the progress that we want and to protect the country in its security, I don't believe that we should spend 1 cent or $1 that is not necessary because I recognize that when I make promises to people that I am not paying it with my money, I am paying it with theirs, and that is why I am a conservative in making the promises and also a conservative in the spending of the money which those promises would entail. ANNOUNCER. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It has been our honor and privilege to interview Mr. Richard Nixon, the nominee of the Republican Party for the Presidency of the United States. Thank you and good night.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Distinguished guests on the platform and our friends here in Kauai, I want to say that on an occasion like this, where the rains are falling, the speeches should be short. And I can say that though an invocation is of course not usually considered to be a speech, after listening as I did and as I am sure you did, very carefully and respectfully to Father McDonald, that is probably the best speech we will hear all day. And that is the prayer for all America, I am sure, in the hearts of all the American people today. [Applause.] He made only one error in that invocation. He said that this was my first visit to Kauai. I want to point out that my wife, Pat, and I visited here 10 years ago, or not 10 years but 8 years ago, when we were in the U.S. Senate. We came to Oahu, we went to the other islands, but we had an occasion here. And we shall never forget the picnic that I had. There is a marvelous little beach, whose name I don't remember, up on the northwest end of the island, a little cove, where I think the water is bluer and the weather is better than at any place in all the world. Now, speaking of the weather, the Governor said, "You know, this isn't Kauai weather. This is the kind of weather we ought to get at Hilo. This is California's unusual weather." And now, if I might just add these words with regard to this island to those of you who have been so gracious as to arrange this meeting and who are standing now in the rain : This November will be a tremendously important date in your lives, or in mine, too, yes, and in Mr. Kennedy's - but in your lives. And the decision you make this November will affect not only your lives and the life of America, but it will affect the cause of freedom throughout the world. It may determine whether we can have peace, and the victory of freedom. And I was so glad to have Father McDonald use the word "victory" rather than "containing" or simply "defending" freedom, because remember, freedom is something that can't stand still. It must move forward. And it belongs not only to us in this gracious land, but it belongs to people in all the world, in the Communist world as well as the free world. This is the kind of thinking we have to have, if we are to meet and defeat those who stand for the forces of tyranny in the world. Now, as you go to the polls in November, may I say simply this: You should look at the candidates, listen to our speeches, but when you vote, remember that you are voting for America, not for a man and not for a party, but for America. A presidential campaign is bigger than any man's ambition. It is more important than any party's future. And that is why Americans in presidential campaigns always do, will in this campaign, and I trust will always in the future, think of what is best for America, what leader can do the best job in keeping the peace without surrender, and in mounting the defenses of freedom for everybody, everywhere, throughout the world. I do not tell you today that I am the only man that can do that. I only say: Make that your judgment. Listen to our speeches. Then when you go into the polling booth, think in terms of what is best for America, and then that will be the decision that will be in your best interests and the best interests of our country. And may I say, finally, again, that for your graciousness in coming, for standing here, or sitting, as you may be, in the rain, my wife and I are deeply appreciative. We only hope that the time may come when we may come back to this garden island, and come back, may I say, in an official capacity, or if events should work out otherwise, in November, an unofficial capacity. But in any event, we don't know of any place in the world that we would rather spend a vacation than in Hawaii, and in Hawaii I don't know of any place better than Kauai. And so, for that, thank you very much. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. Mayor Blaisdell, Governor Quinn, Secretary Seaton, Senator Fong, Lieutenant Governor Kealoha, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, and this great audience here in Hawaii I want to say, as I begin tonight, in the months ahead, my wife, Pat, and I, will be traveling over the 50 States of this country. We will have many meetings like this, some outdoors, some indoors, some larger, perhaps, some smaller; but I consider that none will remain more in our memories more than this one and the 2 days I have spent in Hawaii. And I can say --- [Applause.] And I can say that I am immensely proud that I am the first nominee for the Presidency of the United States to campaign in the State of Hawaii, the 50th State. [Applause.] I have been surprised, as I have told those who have traveled with us through the outer islands today and yesterday - I have been surprised at the magnificent work that has been done by the Republican organization in arranging our meetings. I am a pretty good judge of how you get out crowds. Sometimes they don't come up to expectations. At other times they do. But I know they just don't happen. I know it is a case of people spending hours and hours of their time making plans, the plans for the meeting, the program; and certainly a great crowd like this, on a beautiful evening, when people could be doing other things, I am sure, and enjoying them - a great crowd like this just didn't happen. This was true of all the places we were yesterday and today, and I want to express my deep appreciation not only to the officials here on the platform but to the literally hundreds of people that I know worked to make these meetings as successful as they were. And may I say, too, that I am honored that behind me on this platform are these splendid party officials, the leaders of the Republican Party in Hawaii. I could say something about each of them, about the tremendous leadership they have given not only to our party here, but the stimulation they have given to our party in the United States as well on the mainland. And I can only say that as I speak of Governor Quinn, as I speak of Senator Fong, as I speak of Lieutenant Governor Kealoha - these men represent the kind of strong, vigorous, progressive leadership that the Nation needs. And we are proud that here in Hawaii you have given an example not only to the Republican Party but to the whole Nation, of leadership, in these men. [Applause.] Now, I would like to say a word or two about the other people back here. I asked in advance who they were. There are 200 people. They are precinct captains and chairmen and workers and the like. And I could tell you without any affront to the very distinguished VIP's who are on the platform, that those in the back row are probably the most important people in this campaign. [Applause.] Because, you see, many people get the idea that the way a campaign is won is by the speeches that the candidate makes, or by the public relations, the television broadcasts and the types of information that you put out through the various information media, through billboards, through advertisements in the papers, and the like. All of these things are important. But what really counts - and this particularly is true in a close election - is the work in the precinct, the people who go and call on their friends and neighbors and talk to them about the campaign. They make the difference, the difference where votes are close. And this will be a close election. I think virtually everybody agrees. So to them, the hundreds behind me, and to the literally thousands in front of me, who I trust will be working in this campaign, let me say that I know you are the important ones, and I appreciate what you have done in the past, and I want to thank you in advance for what I know you will do in this campaign as well. May I say, too, that I am on sort of a spot tonight. I know that there were some pretty good, or shall I say high-priced acts that came on before mine. [Laughter.] As a matter of fact, I met some of them as I was leaving, and I know the standard I am going to have to maintain is going to have to be very high. In that connection, I want you to know that I have some pretty good critics at home, not only my wife, Pat, who is of course my most constructive critic, but in addition, my two daughters. And after my acceptance speech in Chicago a few days ago, the girls had attended it along with a few thousand others, and when we were leaving I turned to them and asked them what their reactions were, and the younger one, Julie, who is 12, said, "Now, Daddy, I don't want you to misunderstand, because this is really a compliment. It wasn't 'Boy!'" [Laughter.] And so I just hope today that what I say is not "Boy!" And speaking of messages, apart from the entertainment which preceded it, may I say that no message could be more close to our hearts, as Americans, than the invitation that we have heard tonight. And I would say that that invitation is certainly a great guideline and a splendid standard for all of us to aspire to, whatever our political faith may be. And now may I tell you some of my reactions about my 2 days in Hawaii, about the issues, about the people, and how I think they will be looking at this election. I find that the people in Hawaii are very much like the people in the States, in the mainland. I find that you are interested in many of the same things. I find, for example, that in the crowds there are many, many young people, youngsters, parents coming with their children, and that the parents want to see that their young people have a better life than they themselves have enjoyed. Here in the West, really the West, further west than California, here in the West, there is of course a great sense of progress, of going forward. You are not looking to the past except as a basis for building a better future. You are not satisfied with the present. You want to go forward for a better life, not just for yourself but for your children. And that spirit I have sensed every place that I have been. And you are interested in the domestic problems that face the country today, how we can get programs for better health, programs which will mean a better standard of living, better jobs, better wages, better security, for all Americans. All of these things I know you are interested in. But I found, too, that every place I go, every place that I travel, through the State of Hawaii, today, there is one issue which overrides all the others. And I sensed it perhaps most of all when we went by the Arizona the other day, and we left a wreath in the water. It is the issue of peace, of peace without surrender. I say this is the overriding issue, because the people here, having been the only part of the United States that has known what it means to suffer directly from enemy attack - the people here are conscious of what war can mean, even more than are people in other parts of the United States. And you know, as I know, that we can have the best jobs and the finest social security system and the best health care and the finest education that we can possibly devise; and it isn't going to make any difference if we are not around to enjoy it. And so tonight, of all the subjects that I could talk on, I have selected the subject of our foreign policy and those steps that I think can and must be taken to keep the peace for America and the world and to keep it without surrender of freedom, without surrender of territory. This is the great issue of this campaign. This is the issue which the American people will have in their minds as they measure the candidates for President and Vice President. And this is the issue that I wish to discuss tonight, so that you, whether you are Republicans or Democrats, who are listening to me, may know what I believe, what you can expect from me, if I should succeed in this campaign. And I ask you not only to listen to me, but to listen to my opponents, so that you may compare us. And I ask you to do this, because America needs a decision from the voters that will be the best for America. And that means that you must measure us both, measure our abilities, measure our programs, and then decide which road America should take. And now, if I may turn to that issue and discuss it in its simplest terms and indicate to you my beliefs as to the road America should follow if we are to have peace and have it without surrender in the years ahead. We begin with the proposition that all of us will support. And that is that in today's world there is only one major threat to the peace of the world. We do not threaten the peace of the world. Our allies do not threaten the peace of the world. Everybody in the world knows that we would not initiate a struggle, one that would mean nuclear disaster not only for others but for ourselves. And we do not want any territory that anybody else has. We do not want to impose our will on any other people. And so we are not potential aggressors, and that can be said of our allies as well. There is a threat to the peace of the world. I say a threat because of what they have said and what they are doing. It is the one presented by those who rule the Communist world. They say that they want to accomplish their objective - and they admit this objective of world domination - that they want to accomplish it without war. But on the other hand, they do say that this objective they will and must accomplish. And we, of course, must have in mind the fact that they have maintained tremendous expenditures for the purposes of building their military strength. And so the first requirement, if we are to have peace, is to have strength on our side, which is not only equal to theirs but which is greater than theirs - greater than theirs, so that regardless of what they might have, if they should launch an attack against us, even a surprise attack, we would have enough left to knock out their warmaking capability. This is what America must have, and this must come before any other consideration. [Applause.] And now the question that arises: Do we have this kind of strength today? And on this point I wish to speak very directly; and frankly, in view of some statements that have been made about the weakness of America by some of our political opponents in the last few weeks. May I say in commenting on their statements that I recognize and respect and encourage the right of every American to criticize what is wrong with this country, so that we can correct our weaknesses and make America a stronger and better country. But on the other hand, I say that when we criticize what is wrong, we must not overlook what is right. And one thing we must not overlook is this: That America today, contrary to what you may have heard, is not second rate militarily, not second rate economically [applause], not second rate ideologically, not second rate as far as their education is concerned. We must recognize our weaknesses. But let us be proud of the fact that today we are the strongest nation in the world militarily, economically, ideologically, and we can maintain that strength if we have the will and the stamina to do so. We begin with that proposition. [Applause.] That is the situation today. But in stating that fact, which I believe, and in stating a belief which is based on information which I believe is accurate, may I say that this does not mean that we can be complacent; because we are up against a determined opponent. And we find that they constantly are increasing their activities in this area. And so the United States must not be satisfied militarily with simply resting on what we have. We constantly must explore all the new technological breakthroughs to the full, to see to it that America stays ahead technologically. And we must constantly revise our military estimates whenever our intelligence information indicates the potential enemies of the United States have increased the balance of strength of their side vis-a-vis that which we have together with our allies. And in that connection, let me say that as far as getting intelligence information is concerned, I thing we can he proud of the fact that we have a President of the United States that has put the security of America first and has not allowed an intelligence gap which would lead to another Pearl Harbor. [Applause.] And may the President of the United States, whether he is a Democrat or a Republican, never feel it is necessary to apologize for protecting the security of the United States. In order to maintain this military strength, we must recognize, too, that we need assistance. And we welcome the assistance of our allies. This means that in the years ahead we must not only maintain our strength, but we must work with our allies in NATO and SEATO and CENTO, the alliances that we have built around the world. We must recognize that in addition to this our military strength must be combined with a diplomatic policy which goes along with it. What kind of a diplomatic policy will we need if we are to maintain the position of peace through strength? Diplomatically, we must be firm without being belligerent. I have said that many times before. I repeat it tonight; because the next President of the United States, whoever he is, must have this in his mind above everything else. When you are the subject of insults, as we have been, it is a great temptation to answer those insults in kind. But this temptation must be avoided. It must be avoided, because we might indulge in a war of words that could heat up the international atmosphere to the point where we could set off a nuclear catastrophe. Now, this does not mean, on the other hand, that in not being belligerent and not answering insult by insult, the United States will tolerate being pushed around. This also means that we must be firm every place in the world; because the road to peace is not through appeasement. And the United States, wherever we find freedom threatened, whether it is in Berlin, whether it is in Cuba, wherever it is in the world - we must make it clear to potential aggressors throughout the world that we will stand with the forces of freedom in resisting the attempts to destroy freedom wherever it is. And so we begin with these two ingredients, which everybody would agree with: Military strength second to none. Military strength in which the security of the United States is first, above everything else. And second, diplomatic firmness, diplomatic firmness without belligerency. And, third, we combine our diplomatic firmness with constantly working for, constantly seeking, policies and programs which will reduce international tension. Now, what do I mean by that? I mean simply that the next President should follow the course that President Eisenhower has begun, follow the course of being willing to go anyplace, anyplace in the world, in the cause of peace. Follow the course of being willing to negotiate from a position of strength with firmness, standing always for freedom, but be willing to negotiate on disarmament, on Berlin, on any of the other major differences that we have, trying to work those differences out so that we reduce the areas that might set off this disaster that all of us wish to avoid. And might I say that in this particular field we have to recognize that these next years provide an opportunity to strengthen the instrumentalities that will work for peace. We must work to strengthen the United Nations as an instrument for peace. We must work to strengthen other organizations and to build new organizations on a regional basis which will work for peace. We must use every imaginative, bold method that we can, to strengthen those organizations which can reduce tension and lead to peace without surrender for us and the world; because the stakes are so high that it is not enough to say, "We are strong." It is not enough to say because of our strength we do not feel it is necessary to negotiate. We will never place ourselves in a position where we will negotiate from weakness. We will never negotiate with appeasement in mind. But we must be willing and we must search out the ways to find agreement where agreement is possible, on disarmament, on reducing tensions, throughout the world. And may I say in this case - and I am going to make an announcement at this time that I know will please you - that coming into Hawaii later in the campaign will be a man who is my running mate. And I am proud to say that the man who will be my running mate will not be just a deputy, but he will be a full partner. And I don't know of any man better qualified in this area of working to strengthen the organizations for peace than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for the Vice Presidency. [Applause.] And I assure you that he and I, if we are given the opportunity, will work together in this area to strengthen the forces of peace and freedom all over the world. [Applause.] Now, I have spoken about military strength, of the kind of a diplomatic policy that I believe you must follow. May I now turn to a third area? Sometimes I think there is a tendency for us to think that if we are militarily strong and if we have the right kind of diplomacy, that is the answer to our problems, because then we can build a world of peace, a world in which we can live. But this is not enough; because we can have peace, we can avoid war, and we can still lose our freedom. And this is the greatest thing that threatens the United States today - not the loss of freedom through war, but the loss of freedom through means other than war. And on that point I wish to talk to you tonight as well and indicate the kinds of programs and policies that we should and will follow. What do I mean by the loss of freedom through means other than war? I mean we have in the world today the force of communism, which has developed new means of taking over nations, means more subtle, more difficult to plan against, more difficult to work against. Where the aggressor uses propaganda, where he uses economic means, where he uses political means, where he goes under a border rather than over a border. And this kind of warfare is the kind that the people of the United States must understand and that the people of the free world as well as the people of the United States must develop more effective means to meet. Now, what can we do? What we can do is this: We have a number of programs to meet and deal with this kind of warfare. And before describing those programs, may I tell you where this struggle is taking place? It is taking place in Asia. It is taking place in Africa. It is taking place in the Near East. And it is taking place in parts of South America. A billion people in these parts of the world that I have described - they are often classed as neutralists. They are not neutralists; not in their hearts, because they want to be on the side of freedom. They would prefer to have progress with freedom rather than progress at the cost of freedom. But we must make no mistake about it. These people are determined to have a better way of life, and if they cannot get that better way of life with freedom and through freedom, they will be greatly and sorely tempted to turn to communism, which offers the problems of progress, but which takes freedom away from them in the process. And we cannot and we will not leave to the millions of people living in these countries that choice. So I say to you tonight: As we look at the battleground, we find that the United States has some programs to meet the Communist threat in these areas - programs, for example, for exchange of persons, programs through which we provide technical assistance, economically, politically, and otherwise, to the countries who want it and ask for it, programs where we provide economic loans and grants. You often hear it described as foreign aid. May I say: This is not just foreign aid; it is aid to the United States, aid to the cause of freedom; because where freedom is threatened and where it dies any place in the world, it is threatened here. May I say in this connection that as we look at these programs, for exchange, for technical assistance, for information, programs for economic loans and grants to countries abroad, what we need, not only in stepping up these programs in many areas - and I could speak in great detail if I had the time tonight, for example, as to how we could step up the exchange program and how Hawaii can play a particular part in that respect, through your East-West cultural center and other means. [Applause.] Not only must we step up these programs, but we need to coordinate them and have them directed through the Office of the President of the United States himself. And may I say that in these next few years, if we can get that kind of a directed, coordinated program, we can then, rather than being on the defensive in many parts of the world, use all of these programs together as an ideological striking force, a striking force not for the purpose of taking over and take away the freedom of other countries, but a striking force to defend their freedom and to assure it and make it grow in those parts of the world where they desire freedom and desire to resist the forces of communism. And in this connection, again, as I say, I believe that the programs that we have certainly are on the right track. And rather than reducing them, they need to be expanded. But in addition to expanding them, we need to have them directed and organized, as they are not directed and organized today, not through any fault of those who have been responsible for them, but because the problem is more acute. The problem is changed. And we need, therefore, new methods to meet the problems with which we are confronted today in this area. So much for the program. What about the people that are going to work? We need to train people. We have many good people in these programs at the present time, but we need many more - trained not only in the customs and the languages of the countries to which they will be accredited, but trained thoroughly in the tactics and strategy of world communism, and trained just as thoroughly in the great ideals of the American Revolution, which is the only answer to the Communist revolution which we can present to the world today. We need men and women who are just as dedicated, just as filled with zeal, as are the Communists. And I have seen them, and they are dedicated, and they are filled with zeal. But we need men and women dedicated and filled with zeal, with the determination to outwork, to outfight to outlast the enemies of freedom wherever they meet them, any place in the world. And we need to instill in our people, not only those in Government, but in all Americans who work and travel abroad, private citizens as well, this spirit that we are in a race, a race in which we are ahead, but a race in which we can lose unless we move ahead. And if we can get this kind of a spirit, there is no question about the outcome. But may I add another thought, another thought that is even more important than those on which I have touched up to this point. I have talked about organization. I have talked about programs, about everything else. We must recognize the idea which is the antithesis of what the Communists are. People say, "Well, it is quite simple, isn't it? They offer economic progress at the cost of freedom, and we offer economic progress with freedom". And the answer is that that is part of the story, but that is not all of the story. We must not allow this great contest for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men to be bought sheerly on the basis of materialism. That is what the Communists would like. They would like for this simply to be a contest of who could produce the best factories, the best clothing, the most food, for people in these countries as well as in our own. We must recognize that our greatest strength is not in the area of materialism, but the great strength of America, and the free world, is in the strength of our ideals, our moral and our spiritual strength. This is what we have to offer to the world today. [Applause.] And who desire to turn to our way if we just give them the chance. And I have seen, too, in my travels on the other side of the Iron Curtain, in the heart of the Soviet Union itself, in Warsaw in Poland, on the faces of thousands of people - I have seen love for the people of the United States. And also I have seen and sensed, too, a desire on the part of those people to develop a life in which they have greater freedom than they presently have. In other words, communism is not the way of the future. Freedom is the way of the future. And we must always remember this and never forget it. [Applause.] And may I say, too, that if we look into the future, I think we can all be sure of the fact that people throughout the world are on the side of freedom and on the side of peace. I recall an incident in my first trip around the world in 1953, that I would like to recount to you, which bears out the point that I have made. We were visiting the city of Lantsang, and on one day we were traveling down the road in the new territory just a mile from the Chinese Communist border. And we stopped our car at a school, a grade school, an unexpected stop, which we often like to do in these trips, and walked on to the school grounds at recess time. And the students swarmed around us in great numbers, and Pat, my wife, who is a former teacher and has a way with not only children but grown-ups as well, may I say - I just want people to vote for her; then we'll win, I am sure of that - she went into the second and first grade classrooms and delighted the children by writing her name with a brush in the Chinese style. I talked with some of the older students on the campus, and we talked of many things. And as we were about to leave, about 20 minutes later, the principal of the school, who was also an instructor in English, spoke to me in words that I recall like this. He said, "Mr. Vice President, I want to express to you and to Mrs. Nixon my appreciation for your stopping at our school." He said, "I trust that you will extend my best wishes and those of our students here to the students that you meet in the United States on your return." And I answered him in this way: I said, "Thank you for those good wishes. And may I say to you that I am sure that as I stand here, the cause that you believe in, the cause of peoples living together, will eventually prevail. And I want to tell you that I bring to you not only the best wishes of our Government, but the best wishes of all the people of the United States to the people of China." I could see that he was moved, because he knew at that time that Chinese forces in North Korea had American forces pinned down. And he answered in this way. He said, "I thank you Mr. Vice President, for what you said. And I can tell you that I am confident, and I have faith, that the time will come when our two peoples will again live together in friendship, because we must never forget that we are all brothers in our hearts." And I am sure that you, you who in the past few days have shown us so feelingly the spirit of aloha recognize the truth of what he said. We are all brothers in our hearts. And because we are brothers in our hearts, because freedom and not slavery is the way to the future, because man needs something other than himself to worship, because the moral and spiritual strength of our cause does live not only here but in the hearts of people throughout the world and even on the other side of the Iron Curtain, we will prevail. But may I say in concluding that it is not enough simply to elect a man as President of the United States who believes these things. This is going to require a national effort. It is going to require on the part of each and every American the best that he can give to his country, the best that our students can give in their classrooms, the best that our workers can give, the best that our workers and our employers can give in their activity; and in your political activities, since this is a political meeting, it means that every American, be he Democrat or Republican, should not only vote for the man or woman of his choice, but he should also work for that man, so that the selection that is made represents the best thinking of the total American voting population. [Applause.] And tonight, as I stand here, in this beautiful evening, may I tell you that, as we begin this campaign, nothing could be more inspiring than to have met the tremendous crowds that we have seen every place that we have gone, to speak here tonight before this wonderful crowd, and in the months ahead, when the going gets rough, when we get tired, after many, many speeches at the end of a week, we will look back and remember you and the encouragement you have given us. And I make one request to you: Throughout this campaign, I hope that everything I say, everything I do, will serve the cause of peace and the cause of freedom. I make another pledge to you: That however this election comes out, I, with you, will work for this cause, and I will carry away in my heart the spirit of aloha, the spirit of aloha which all the world needs, and which you have in your hearts tonight. [Applause.]
QUESTION. Would you give US some idea of what you accomplished on your trip to Hawaii? Vice President NIXON. Well, first, I think that we developed a great deal of unity among the Republican Party officials in Hawaii. As in any party, where you have a number of new leaders developing, you have a tendency to have some factions, each leader has his friends. And I was told - both separately and together - by all of those concerned, that the Republicans in Hawaii had never been so united as they were at this time as a result of this trip. The second thing I think we accomplished was to get the opportunity to present to the people of Hawaii on television and at very large meetings, my views on international affairs. I may say that one of the things that impressed me particularly about the residents of our newest State is that there is probably not another State in the Union in which they have a greater interest in international affairs than in Hawaii. This is understandable; they're an island community in the middle of the Pacific; they're the only piece of American territory that suffered directly from enemy attack in World War II. And I think that my discussion of that issue struck a very responsive chord. I would say, finally, that from my observation of the reactions of the crowd, the organization that I saw in action, our organization, I believe that we have a good chance to carry Hawaii. I think if we had not come that the chance would not be as good, but I think our chances have been greatly improved. QUESTION. I'd like to be certain we understand your position with regard to Jack Hall, the ILWU leader in Hawaii. Would you accept his support, Mr. Vice President, if he offered it to you? Vice President NIXON. I have always made it clear that I would not seek and would not pay any price for the support of a leader of labor or a leader of business, and this goes for Mr. Hall as well as for anybody else. As far as he is concerned, the only report that I have is that when we were there and he was introduced to me, he indicated that the members of his union had not taken a position in favor of the Democratic candidate and, therefore, were neutral at this point. My response to him is the response that I made publicly and that I make here again today: that I seek the support of members of unions, as well as those who are not members of unions. I do not seek, or pay any price, for the support of so-called "bosses" or leaders of unions who claim that they can deliver votes. In my opinion, it is not in the American tradition for a leader of any organization to go to a public official, to make a deal, in effect, to deliver the vote. As far as Mr. Hall is concerned and the ILWU, I have no information as to what position he will take. He has not indicated what he will do; I would say that whatever he says that I would hope that the union members would vote independently. I think it's vitally important that members of organizations vote their own convictions and not be led and, in effect, ordered to vote in any way by their leaders. QUESTION. Now, you've made it clear, sir, that in your opinion your campaign starts from behind and that you consider every State of considerable importance. On what basis do you say that Washington and the Northwest are a key battleground? Vice President NIXON. Well, Washington, as you are well aware, has had a history of very close elections over some time. In 1948, we lost Washington (the Republicans did) by, well, a virtual landslide - we got only 42 percent of the vote; we won Washington by 54 percent of the vote in 1952, and 53 percent (we dropped a bit) in 1956. Washington did extremely well at the congressional level in 1958, but I would say that the indications are at the present time that Washington would be one of the closest States because at the State level you have a Democratic Governor, at the congressional level we have, of course, the Republican Congressmen, and, of course, at the congressional level we also have two Democratic Senators. I think that very complex indicates why I say that Washington will be close - as well as its history. That's one of the reasons we will be back in here again. Another reason, of course, is that we naturally have to put more emphasis on States with larger votes from the standpoint of the number of contacts we make. I will not be going back to Hawaii, for example. I would not go to any State that had two or three electoral votes - I mean, three or four electoral votes - more than once. A State like Washington requires more than that - both because it's close and because it has a number of electoral votes. I think we have a chance to carry Washington, but I would say that I consider it a 50-50 State. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I wonder if you could tell us what you intend to do in the reconvening session of the Congress? Vice President NIXON. Of course, from a constitutional standpoint all that I can do is to preside over the Senate and break ties in the event there are any, and that means that I will have to be in Washington throughout the session - particularly during those periods when any votes are indicated. Because I have broken, I understand, as many ties - if not more ties - than any Vice President in history because of the close division. Now, apart from that however, I will have the opportunity in the legislative conferences with the President to comment on and to a certain extent effect the course of the recommendations that the President makes to the Congress. I talked at some length with the President at Newport last week with regard to the message he is going to send to the Congress. While I was in Hawaii, I talked by telephone on two occasions to those who are working on the message and indicated views that I thought might be included in it, and during the session of Congress I will work with the President and with the Republican legislators in attempting to develop a constructive program. I would say finally that I think this Congress, this congressional session, could turn out to be a "donnybrook" which would be very detrimental to the public interest. I don't think that either party would gain if that happened, and if either party would have to assume any blame for doing that. I can assure you that I'm going to do everything that I can to see that our party, the Republican Party, in the Congress, acts responsibly, that we attempt to get action on those parts of the President's program that will be before the Congress, and that we never engage in activities which would be considered to be delaying or otherwise destructive as far as the public interest is concerned. I trust the other party will do likewise. QUESTION. As you left for Hawaii, Mr. Khrushchev in a letter to Premier MacMillan has said that it might be useful to have another try at a summit conference. What's your reaction to that? Vice President NIXON. I haven't had a chance, of course, to talk to our State Department officials about this last letter of Mr. Khrushchev's to Mr. Macmillan. My reaction to summit conferences I expressed after the failure of the Paris Conference in a speech I made to the SEATO Organization in Washington. My position still remains what I stated at that time and it is this: I do not believe we should rule out summit conferences simply because Mr. Khrushchev torpedoed the Paris Conference. If the best thinking of those in the free world, the leaders of the free world is that a summit conference is the only - or the best - way to get a discussion of and a possible resolution of differences, then we would and should participate in such a conference. But, as I said at the SEATO meeting, as a result of Mr. Khrushchev's conduct at Paris, I think all of the leaders of the free world very properly should take a cautious view of jumping in to a summit conference again unless and until we have assurances - as a result of the groundwork laid by the negotiations at the secretarial level, Secretary of State - unless we have assurances, that such a conference is going to serve the cause of reducing tensions. I believe that when you have summit conferences that you must have a reasonable guarantee that some good will come from it, because - as we saw at Paris - when you have such a conference, the hopes of the world are built up tremendously, more than they should be, and regardless of what all of us tried to say before the Conference - that it wasn't going to settle all these problems, the hope of the world was built up. And so, it is terribly irresponsible for leaders of the free world to walk into such a conference, to allow one to go forward, unless as a result of the preparations that have been made, they are reasonably sure that there is a chance for some progress being made. QUESTION. My question is left over from the Republican Convention. In your joint statement with Governor Rockefeller there was a paragraph about confederation, which gave the impression - it was widely interpreted as meaning - that the United States ought to take the lead in bringing about regional confederation in Europe, Latin America, and that we should be a part of such a confederation. When the platform came out, this came out as endorsing the idea of confederations in those areas but no specific indication that the United States would take any part. Did you agree to that change? Can you tell us what your feeling is? Vice President NIXON. In the platform, Mr. Roberts, what happened in the platform committee was that there was no provision in the original draft - that is, the foreign policy plank - for confederations at all. After Mr. Rockefeller and I had met in New York and had indicated our approval of the general ideas that you have described, in which the United States should just not participate but take the lead in developing regional confederations in Europe, in Latin America, and other parts of the world, after we issued that statement, the platform committee reconsidered that plank. There was some opposition in the committee: (1) to using the term "confederation" - that opposition eventually receded to an extent; and (2) to going as far in approving U.S. initiative as the Governor's statement and mine indicated. In the final analysis, both the Governor and I approved the foreign policy plank as it came out because it recognized the principle of confederations, and as I indicated to all concerned on the platform committee and the Governor himself, I, as the candidate, intend to interpret that section of the platform as giving me, as the candidate, the right to urge the United States to take the initiative in this area. Because I strongly believe, as I implied in my speech in Hawaii last night, that not only must we in the sixties explore all possible ways of increasing the effectiveness of the U.N. as an instrument of peace and world cooperation, but that we also must explore new ideas, or regional confederations, and take the initiative in developing them. So, my answer is that the platform does not state the position in as advanced a form as the candidate will interpret it. But that was understood by the platform committee and approved on that basis. QUESTION. It seems that every newly elected President invites someone to dinner who, in turn, stays for 4 years and moves into the White House. For instance, you recall Colonel House, Harry Hopkins, Sherman Adams. I'm wondering, if you are elected will you invite someone to dinner - and who will he be? [Laughter.] Vice President NIXON. Well, you know, I have learned from previous visits to this area that I can always expect an interesting question like that, and I appreciate it. The answer, of course, is that I do not think it appropriate for a candidate for the Presidency to begin to act as if he is President before the people give him the right to do so. And so, consequently, I do not want to indicate who will be members of the Cabinet, or even who will be invited to dinner. The only promises that I can make in that respect is that when that happens that you will all know about it at the time, but this is not the time to discuss it. QUESTION. You have had your conference with President Eisenhower at Newport, and since then in your speeches you've said things that seem to go a little beyond what he is willing to do. Now, I wonder if you are satisfied that you don't get your lines crossed in this special session of Congress when these matters come up. Vice President NIXON. You're referring particularly, for example, to matters in the military, are you, foreign aid and the like? Yes. No, I do not think that this problem is a serious one. The President has made it clear that I should have, as the candidate, the right to build on the record that he has made, and that I have the right to indicate those areas where I think because of new circumstances, new approaches are necessary. Now, as far as this special session of Congress is concerned, I do not anticipate that there will be an opportunity to go into many new approaches. About all this session can do is to finish the "unfinished" business left over from the previous session. For example, you mentioned foreign aid. On that score I think we will be doing well if we can just get the Democratic majority to restore the cut that the House made in foreign aid. And I will strongly urge that that be done. I do not expect, for example, that any new programs in exchange, any new programs in economic assistance, or the like, will be considered. Now, one exception I should make. The President is contemplating, of course, sending a message to the Congress and, as you gentlemen know, he has been considering a new program for Latin America. It is possible that such a program may be presented to the Congress and that that might be acted upon. But as far as the kind of programs I have been discussing, I have been thinking of them not in terms of action at this session of the Congress, but in terms of presenting them to the country and getting a national mandate for such action in the next session of the Congress in the new administration. QUESTION. In connection with expanding or building on the record of the present administration, would you contemplate any Executive or White House action in the civil rights bill? Vice President NIXON. Our platform indicates some areas in which the Executive can contribute to progress in this field, clearly apart from what we will ask the Congress to do. I would add only this. I believe that the Presidency affords an opportunity to exert a great deal of leadership purely apart from the specific actions - for example, equal job opportunity in Government, equal job opportunity where Government contracts are concerned, and the like - that the Presidency does provide an opportunity for leadership in bringing together the various contending groups, bringing them together and attempting to develop a better climate for settling differences and, in some instances, working out settlements of differences that have arisen in this problem. I believe, myself, that the office of the Presidency should be used for the purpose of providing for as much leadership as possible toward that end. I do not believe that it is enough for the President and the administration and its officials (officials in the administration, for example) simply to say: We will get the Congress to pass laws and then let it lie there. I believe that many of these problems simply aren't susceptible to solution in any reasonable time by the long processes of the law, and I think that the process can be speeded up through leadership on the part of the President and members of his official family where these disputes arise. Let me give you one specific example because I realize this has been general and to an extent rambling. I've been trying to describe in general terms and I'm thinking specifically. Let's take the matter of sit-ins. Right at the present time the Attorney General has been having conferences with the leaders of some of the major chains that operate throughout the country. I have been aware of these conferences and, in fact, have discussed them with the Attorney General and strongly approved of what he is doing. In these conferences he has urged these people to take the initiative on this matter, initiative which simply means you solve the problem before it goes through the long legal process, which would take 4 or 5 years, of getting a Supreme Court decision as to whether (1) they have a responsibility to serve everybody under the law, and (2) as to whether or not the demonstrators have a legal right to demonstrate. I think this is a good example of where the prestige of the Presidency and members of his official family can be brought to bear to solve these problems, and I would frankly take the initiative and urge members of the Cabinet to take the initiative in cases of this type to develop solutions. QUESTION. I wonder how important you think these TV debates will be? Vice President NIXON. How important the TV debates will be will be determined almost exclusively by how interesting they can be made. Many people have the idea that a debate is always interesting, because they figure it's two men arguing about something. But the debate can be very dull, as some of you saw the debate between Mr. Humphrey and Mr. Kennedy in West Virginia. I think debates of that type would set the cause of informing the public in elections back 50 years, if we had them, and I don't intend certainly to participate in ones of that type. But if the debates can be on issues on which the candidates disagree and in which there is great public interest, then they will serve a useful purpose. And if the format is one that will bring the views of the candidates out - either through questioning by newsmen, or by others - rather than a format in which the candidates simply read speeches at each other. I understand negotiations are going on now to see whether or not we can work out a format that is satisfactory, but the format and the subject will determine how interesting the debates will be and what purpose they will serve. QUESTION. Would you appraise Kefauver's victory? Vice President NIXON. Would I "praise" it? Appraise it? I was going to say I couldn't praise it because I don't want to get into a Democratic fight; we have enough in our own party. Well, I think Senator Kefauver has, over a period of year, developed obviously a great deal of strength in his home State. It's awfully difficult to take out an incumbent, particularly one who has a national reputation as he has. He's been a candidate for President twice, and is now engaged in investigations on the drug industry, which has given him a lot of publicity. And also, as he proved in his two campaigns for the Presidency, while he never won the nomination he was one of the most effective campaigners - looking at his primary victories - that the country has produced. Frankly, I wasn't surprised at it at all. I think it was to be expected, the margin may have been larger, but Senator Kefauver is - I don't agree with him on a great many subjects, but he is one of the ablest campaigners and one of the most underrated campaigners on the American scene today. (Note: an announcement is made to members of the press and then the Vice President speaks again.) Vice President NIXON. One point I would like to add, Warren, with regard to your question, the Jack Hall question, I think it should be clear. As you gentlemen will know, when I met Mr. Hall he was introduced to me in the presence of newsmen, which was, of course, at my insistence; I declined to meet him or, for that matter, any other individual on a private basis where matters like that were to be discussed, and I should point out that on that occasion I, of course, did not ask for support and no support was pledged. I make it clear that I think it is essential that a President of the United States be under no obligation to any leader of labor or any leader of business, because their insistence upon 100 percent conformity with their views means that, if he has such obligations, it leaves the people out in the cold. This has been my view and continues to be.
ANNOUNCER. Vice President Richard M. Nixon is the honored guest today of Cumberland County's 200th birthday celebration. Since his arrival in Portland at 2:45 this afternoon, he has met a busy schedule of appearances and participation in the celebration. Now a corps of newsmen from all sections of Maine and the Nation have gathered for an informal news conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice President of the United States. Vice President NIXON. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it may be possible that you will not be able to hear the questions because of the acoustics in the room. If I see that is the case, I will repeat the questions before I give the answer. Just go right ahead. (Question.) The question is that Senator Dodd of Connecticut suggested today in the Senate that both Senator Kennedy and I endorse the idea of resuming underground nuclear tests, weapons tests, immediately. And the question is: What is my comment? My reply is that I believe it would be a mistake for the United States at this time to break off the negotiations which are taking place on nuclear testing and to resume testing. I do not believe, as I have indicated on several occasions in the past, and as the President has also indicated, that we can continue an indefinite moratorium. I believe that in the current negotiations we must press for a resolution on the part of all parties concerned of the differences, if that is possible. Unless it is found, if that time should come, that further negotiations have no chance or no reasonable chance of producing an agreement, then the United States should and must resume tests. But at the present time there is still a chance that the negotiations can result in an agreement in which testing will be discontinued by both the Soviet Union and the United States, or at least not resumed by both, assuming both have discontinued them, and that this agreement will have with it inspection procedures. Now the reason that it is vitally important that we continue to press forward until there is obviously no chance of success is that if we can get an agreement on nuclear testing, suspension of nuclear testing, with inspection, it opens the door and paves the way for disarmament with inspection. And this must be the goal of the President of the United States, whatever party he may be from. And so for these reasons I do not believe that the President should at this time unilaterally break off the negotiations and resume tests. (Question.) The question is that the Democratic candidate for the Presidency has assumed some responsibility for leadership as far as his program is concerned in the Congress. What is my role, insofar as the Congress is concerned? And in connection with that role, would I be willing to have press conferences in Washington? First, with regard to my role, I must maintain the position, and can only appropriately take the position, that during this session of the Congress I am the Vice President of the United States and not the President of the United States. The President has the responsibility and also the prerogative of dealing with the Congress and providing the leadership for the administration program in the Congress. It is my responsibility to do everything that I can to see that that program gets through. And that I am doing. I have met with the President prior to the time that he sent his message to the Congress. I have met with the President and the congressional leaders this week, at least the senatorial leaders, on that program, and I have been meeting - as a matter of fact, I had a meeting just before I came up to Maine today, with Senator Dirksen and other Senate leaders, on the program within the Congress. But it would not be appropriate for me to take the role that Senator Kennedy does, of being responsible for and in effect calling the signals for the administration's program in the Congress. As the President has well pointed out, he is still President, and he will be until the end of this year. As far as press conferences in Washington are concerned, I, of course, will have press conferences just as soon as the Congress adjourns. I have not ruled out the possibility of having press conferences in Washington if there are particular subjects that arise that would make it seem that such a press conference would be advisable or appropriate under the circumstances. I feel that since the nomination I am in a position that is different from the one I maintained before I was nominated, and I could have a press conference in Washington if I desired at this time, even while the Congress is in session. I am not announcing any. I am just saying I don't rule them out. And as you know, I have ruled them out previously.  (Question.)  As far as Maine is concerned, from my conversations with Senator Smith yesterday, and with the Maine political leaders today - I haven't had too much chance to talk, but I have had some - I have been greatly encouraged by not only the prospects for the national ticket, but the prospects for our legislative and State ticket in Maine. I am encouraged for several reasons. One, Senator Smith adds greatly to the strength of any ticket in Maine. And I can only say that I am very happy to be running on the same ticket with her, because she will draw heavily as she always does. Second, we have in our candidate for Governor one of the, I think, best candidates that we have had in Maine for the gubernatorial spot in some time. I have been very impressed with his ability, with his understanding of the issues, and I think that he will do very well during the course of this election, in the election campaign. I would say that at this point we expect to carry Maine for the national ticket, and I will go further and say that I obviously expect that Mrs. Smith will carry it. I think the Governor has a good chance to return the statehouse on the electoral basis - he already, of course, is Governor; but on an election basis - to the Republicans; and I believe that as far as the congressional seats are concerned, we now have one, and in both of the other two races there is a chance, and in some instances a very good chance, that we can pick up seats. As far as the balance of New England is concerned, I have not had enough information to make predictions with regard to it. I can only say this: That, as I indicated in Chicago, and as this trip is a demonstration, I do not write off any of the States in New England, and we intend to campaign in all of them. We realize that the campaign, for example, in Massachusetts is going to be much more difficult than in Maine; but we are going in there, and we certainly have been encouraged by what we have seen on this trip. (Question.) The question is: Do I believe that the leadership in the Senate will arrange and divulge the timetable business in the Senate so that Senator Kennedy and I will have an equal opportunity to leave Washington and make trips like this for campaign purposes? My answer would be that I would hope so. I am not charging that the leadership deliberately has not done this, but I will say that obviously there is some advantage in being in control of the time. For example, I had several engagements on Wednesday of this week, several invitations for meetings which would have taken me out of Washington, one in Virginia and one in Maryland, which I had turned down, on the ground that I expected the Senate to be in session; and when the Senate was not in session, I didn't learn it early enough in order to change my plans. Senator Kennedy, of course, went to New York on that occasion. This, of course, could very well have been a coincidence, and I would only say that I am sure that both Senator Kennedy and Senator Johnson want to be fair in this matter, and I hope that in the future they will announce, not only for my benefit but for the benefit of all of the Republicans as well as the Democrats, the schedule a week in advance; because certainly if that is done, then we can both have an equal chance to leave Washington when no votes are scheduled. Otherwise, the man who doesn't know what is going to happen might be caught short. (Question.) Well, Mr. Dambourg, you have, of course, been observing the political scene for some time, and I would say as far as the planning of this trip is concerned, it happened that the invitation we received was one that we could take at the last moment. And that is the reason why we happened to come to Maine on this particular day. I will say, however, that I had always planned, before this congressional session became a factor - I had always planned to make a New England swing early in the campaign. I think part of this is perhaps the precedent. I don't mean that I believe in omens in campaigns, but I recall having begun the campaign in 1952 in Maine. And, incidentally, we campaigned for 4 days, as you recall, on that occasion. And that election turned out pretty well. And consequently I had tentatively planned a New England swing early in the campaign. So I would say that while we didn't deliberately say we were going to go to Hawaii first and then to Maine second, the fact that it worked out that way I think is rather fortunate. (Question.) I will be back to New England. I want to make it clear that this is not the New England campaign. (Question.) The question is that one of Senator Kennedy's campaign charges is that the position of the United States has declined in the last 8 years vis-a-vis the Soviet Union militarily, diplomatically, prestige-wise, et cetera. The question is: How do I appraise my responsibility for administration policy, which might have been responsible for that decline, if there was one. Well, obviously, I begin by disputing the assumption. The Soviet Union has been moving aggressively, economically, and militarily and ideologically ever since World War II, and this movement has been stepped up in the last 5 years. There is no question about that. But I also say that the United States has moved effectively militarily, economically, and ideologically in this period as well. And I reiterate again that the United States today is ahead of the Soviet Union in all major areas, militarily, economically, and, as I mentioned in my remarks earlier today, scientifically and educationally; that we cannot be complacent; that we must move ahead to stay ahead. Now, as far as my responsibility for policy is concerned, I take the responsibility. I do not say that because I have been Vice President and not President, and because there may have been instances where I may have had one position in an administration which might not have been adopted, I do not take the position that therefore I am not part of the administration and therefore responsible for its failures as well as taking some credit for its successes. So I want to say this promptly, and I am glad to have this question early in the campaign, because if this is to be an issue, I am ready to meet it. (Question.) The question is: Assuming that the Congress does not have time to act on all the 22 points laid out by the President, which one do I think should have top priority? My answer is that I discussed this matter with the President just a few days ago. And we believed, and I think very properly so, that it would not be correct for us at this time to set up a priority list for legislation in this Congress. We believe that the Congress should keep at its work and get just as much of this program through as possible. We believe that all of the 22 points are important. We recognize that the Congress probably can't get through them all; but we do not think this is the time for us to indicate a priority, particularly since the Congress has the responsibility for calling up the legislation. Now, that situation may change as we get toward the end of the session; and as we see what the prospects are, the President might well decide to indicate those matters that he thinks should be passed. I don't say that he will, but I can only say that we do not believe that should be done at this time. (Question.) The question is: What steps have I taken or will I take on the minimum wage legislation which is currently before the Congress? I support the administration bill. I think, as you are aware, you actually have three bills which are potentially before the Congress. You have the Kennedy bill, which would raise the minimum wage on a graduated basis to a dollar and a quarter in 3 years, and which would expand coverage to 5 million people not presently covered. You have the House bill, which would raise the minimum wage to $1.15 in 1 year, and which would expand coverage to a much lower number, approximately a million, net increase. It takes coverage away from some. It adds to others. The administration's position is in between. We would extend coverage to approximately 3 million not presently covered, and the coverage which we would extend is to those particular businesses which operate interstate and which have larger gross incomes and, therefore, businesses that we think could, therefore, pay the minimum wage, not resulting in unemployment, which might result if such businesses covered by the broader coverage of the Kennedy bill were brought under the minimum wage. I think the administration bill is the proper approach, and within the Senate at the present time, where the legislation currently is lodged, I am pressing for adoption of the administration bill. Now, in this connection, I might say that it is a question of getting the administration position adopted by amendment, because the committee bill will obviously be the Kennedy bill. The House bill will have strong support from some Republicans and many Democrats as well. And I am urging the middle ground of the administration bill. (Question.) The question is: Am I one of the architects of the present farm policy? The answer is that as a member of this administration, as I have indicated on several occasions, since approximately 1955, within the administration I have been urging a new approach in the farm policy area. It has seemed to me that in this area the important thing to accomplish is a breakthrough of the stalemate which presently exists between the legislative branch of the Government and the executive branch of the Government. And it seems to me that it isn't enough simply to stay in the rigid position in which both the legislature, may I say, the Congress, and the administration, presently find itself. It isn't enough to stay in that position, and this stalemate must and shall be broken. And so far as farm policy is concerned, I indicate today what I have indicated on several occasions. We need a new approach on the part of the Executive to break the stalemate so that we can get away from a program that everybody agrees is wrong as far as the basic commodities are concerned, wrong because it piles up surpluses and reduces farm income for those particular commodities. I will announce that program at a speech that I will make early in the campaign in the Midwest. (Question.) I would say that on this area of policy, the views that I have been urging have not been adopted by the administration. I would say that as far as the differences are concerned, I think that it might be appropriate to point out my philosophy with regard to a Vice President or a Cabinet member. There are no differences once a policy is adopted. And as far as I am concerned, that will be the case in a new administration, if it should be one in which I have the leadership. You argue these points out within an administration. You urge your point of view. And then when your point of view is not adopted, then that is the administration policy. Now, however, that I am a candidate in my own right, I will continue to urge my own approach in this area. (Question.) The question is that Senator Kennedy said that I have described Secretary Benson as being one of the best Secretaries of Agriculture, and is this true, that I have done so? And the answer is that I have described in the past, and I do today, Secretary Benson as being one of the most dedicated men in public service, one who has worked for the interests of the farmer as he saw and thought those interests to be. I feel that his problem has been that he has been unable to convince the Congress of the wisdom of his program and has been unable to make the breakthrough that I have indicated earlier is essential in this area. This does not, however, reflect on the fact that he is a man of great dedication and one who has worked extremely hard for the farmers. The fact that he has not been successful has been the fault of the Congress, which has never given his program a chance. (Question.) The question is: Are there other areas in which my recommendations have not been adopted by the administration, other than the farm area, and what those areas were. Obviously, over a period of 8 years, there have been several occasions when not only I but other members of the Cabinet have had different views within the administration. I don't think it would be appropriate to attempt to go over each of those areas. I can only say that during the course of the campaign I will be elucidating my own viewpoint on all the major issues, and I think the gentlemen of the press of the country can well learn what other areas in which I have had disagreement. (Question.) What plans, if we should win, do we have to maintain the Federal highway program? My answer is that I think this program has been one of the major achievements of this administration. I think it should be continued with as much Federal support as can be absorbed and as is needed to keep the program up with the country's transportation needs. I may say, incidentally, that I have a great interest in the whole field of transportation. I think there are some new approaches in this field that can be developed, and I am planning a major speech on transportation during the course of the campaign, not only highways but the whole field of transportation, airways, urban communications, and the like. (Question.) The question is: How far do I think America should go to prevent the extension of Russian influence in Cuba? May I say first that I appreciate the way the question was worded. What we are concerned about, as the President implied in his press conference, is foreign domination, foreign communism, coming into Cuba. If the Cuban people choose any form of government or economic system that they want, they have that right of choice. We can have no quarrel with them. It is the foreign domination that is the key. And the answer is that, as the President has indicated, the United States cannot and will not tolerate a foreign-dominated government in the Western Hemisphere, and we have to do whatever is necessary. I don't want to spell out now what additional things we will do, other than economic action that we have taken, because we feel that the Cuban people, as well as people in the balance of Latin America, are increasingly becoming aware of the threat of communism, and are developing policies, perhaps, and programs, to deal with it. But I will say as far as our policy is concerned, whatever is necessary we must be prepared to do. (Question.) The question is that in Hawaii I indicated that I might engage in a good deal of foreign policy if I were President, and would I elucidate on it? Excuse me. Foreign travel, if I were President; and would I elucidate on that. What I meant to say in Hawaii was that I feel that foreign travel on the part of the President, Vice President, Secretary of State, and other high Government officials, has been effective. I don't believe that the fact that we have had a problem in Caracas and on a much larger scale, of course, the President had a problem in Tokyo, means that we should allow Communist mobs, which have been deliberately set up for the purpose of discouraging these very effective trips, to keep us from contact with our friends. I can only say that I believe that this travel must, of course, be carefully planned, but that the high officials of this Government must and should seize every opportunity to carry the ideological position of the free world abroad by trips such as the President has taken so successfully. ANNOUNCER. You have been listening to an informal news conference with Vice President Richard M. Nixon. The Vice President has been visiting Maine during the 200th anniversary celebration of Cumberland County.
Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, and I think I can say, my fellow North Carolinians, what a very great thrill it is for my wife, Pat, and for me to he here and to receive such a wonderful welcome in my first visit to North Carolina as a candidate. To the crowd that we see here in this magnificent coliseum, and to those who are in an auditorium in another part of the building, and to those who are outside, who could not get in, may I say thank you for coming and for giving us a tremendous morale booster on this return to North Carolina. My good friend Congressman Charles Jonas (Republican, North Carolina) has often invited me to come to North Carolina and suggested we might do well down here. I must say I thought Charlie was being a bit enthusiastic then. But tonight I can only say that after looking at the election results for 1952 and seeing that we got 44 percent of the North Carolina vote, and after looking at the results for 1956 and seeing that we got 49 percent of the North Carolina vote, and after seeing this enthusiastic crowd - I think we are going to get over 50 percent of the votes in North Carolina. In any event, we will give our opponents the fight of their lives. That will be good for them and good for us; because the harder the fight, the better the chance that we will get good leadership for America. All of you realize that the main personal reason why I wanted to come back to North Carolina as the first of the States in this part of the country is because I owe my education to North Carolina and to Duke University. And when I say "owe it to North Carolina, to Duke," I mean it, because if the university had not been so generous with its scholarships I could not have come here. I have many memories of Duke that I would like to relive with you. I remember that I worked harder and learned more in those 3 years than in any 3 years of my life. And I always remember that whatever I have done in the past, or may do in the future, Duke University is responsible one way or the other. After referring to these personal considerations, may I turn now to what I know is on your minds and on the minds of people throughout this country tonight, and to what will be on your minds, as it should be, between now and November 8 - the future of America and what you can do to affect her future by the votes you cast on that day. I shall speak to you on the issues of this campaign in a way you may not expect. I recognize that this audience is predominantly Republican. I also recognize that the usual approach in a meeting of this kind is to come before such an audience and say, "Vote Republican." I do not say that to you tonight. I say to you that the issues before the American people in this campaign, the kind of leadership that America must furnish this Nation and the world, and the decisions with regard to these issues and this leadership are so important that we should look beyond the party label and see what the man stands for. I call upon all the people here, whether you are Republicans or Democrats or independents, to hear what I have to say, to hear me on the issues, and then to make your decision - not on the basis of the party label, even though you happen to be a member of my party - but on the basis of whether you think what I stand for is best for America. Decide whether you think what I stand for, and what those who stand with me stand for, is the kind of leadership that would be best for you and your family and your children in the years ahead. In setting forth these issues I cannot touch upon them all, of course. Instead I will dwell only on those that I think are uppermost in your minds. I will begin with a major difference between the approach of the other party, a difference which was highlighted by their platform and our platform. I speak of the approach to domestic problems that America should adopt in this critical period of the sixties. All of you that heard our convention will recall that I, along with other speakers, said that we stand for a better America, for better schools and better jobs and better housing, for a better break for our farmers, for an improved standard of living for the American people, for progress for all. You heard us say that, and you heard our Democratic opponents say the same thing from Los Angeles. At a press conference just before we came here I was asked, "Mr. Nixon, is there really any difference between the two parties? Don't you really stand for the same thing? Isn't it a question of you 'me-tooing' them or them 'me-tooing' you?" My answer is, there is a big difference. The difference is not in the goals we seek, because we all want a better country for ourselves, and particularly for our children. The difference between Republicans and Democrats is in the way they answer the question: How does America get there? On that score we say that our way is the proved way and a better way than they offered at their convention. But here I want to make an admission. If you are looking for promises of what the Federal Government will do for you, you should not support me, because our opponents have outpromised us on everything, and they seem to be intent on outpromising us on everything that the Federal Government can do. So some of you may say: "Now, just a minute. Isn't that a pretty dangerous admission to make? If you admit that they are going to outpromise you on what the Federal Government will do for the people, how can the people possibly vote for you?" The answer is this. They outpromise us in what they say the Federal Government will do, but they cannot outperform us and they cannot outpromise us as far as the results are concerned and the objectives which we will achieve. You see, their approach to every question, whether it is health, or education, or housing, is to turn it over to the Federal Government, and call for a bigger Government spending program. We say that the way to progress in America, the best way, the proved way, the way to go forward into a bright new future, is not through expanding the size and the functions of government, but by increasing the opportunities for millions of individual Americans. This, we believe, is the answer. How does this produce better results? My answer is - look at our history. What has built this country? What produced such magnificent progress here in North Carolina, the State which leads the South in economic progress? Government supplemented much that the State and the individuals accomplished, but North Carolina, and America, have grown as they have, and we are as rich and productive as we are, not primarily because of what government has done, but because government has provided the climate for individual and private enterprise to grow and flourish. We must never forget that lesson. The answer is, our policies bring the most out of individuals. Our policies encourage individuals rather than discourage them. Our policies recognize and encourage local government and State government to do a job, when it may be done better at the local or State level rather than to turn it over to the Federal Government. We say that this policy is the one that, disregarding party, Americans should and will support in these critical years ahead. On this score ours is the proved way and a better way than that offered at their Los Angeles convention. It is a proved way because, while you have heard a lot of criticism of our administration, there has never been an administration in history which, in bringing peace to the American people, in bringing progress, in bringing prosperity to all walks of life, has been better for the American people than the 8 years of the Eisenhower administration. And having mentioned the President, may I say that certainly whatever we may think of this policy or that, every American can be proud of the fact that he is a man who has always upheld the dignity of that great office in a way which certainly could not be surpassed by any man in this country. Now, having spoken of the record, sometimes there is a tendency for people to say: "Well, this is our record and we're going to stand on it." But we don't say that tonight, and we will not say it throughout this campaign. Instead, we Americans are a people who are for progress. We want to move forward. We do not want to stand still no matter how well we may have moved in the past. As I have put it often, a record is not something to stand on but something to build on. That is the way to approach the problems of the future. Let me give one example that I think is particularly appropriate in view of the fact that North Carolina has such a proud tradition in education. It should be a proud tradition. Right here in the Greensboro area there are six splendid institutions of higher learning. In the whole field of elementary education there is no State in the Nation that has moved forward more progressively than North Carolina. Here is a difference in approach to prove the point I made. You have been hearing about the different approaches to Federal aid to education of our opponents at Los Angeles and of our party in Chicago. Let me point out the difference, and I think you will see clearly the point I have been trying to make. Our program is one which says that the Federal Government activities in aiding education at the elementary or high school level should be limited to supporting school construction only. Our opponents do not stop there. They promise more. They say the Federal Government should step in with a much bigger program, much bigger in dollars and much bigger in what it covers. Not only should the Federal government subsidize the States in building schools, but the Federal Government should also step in and subsidize the operation of the schools and particularly subsidize our teachers' salaries so that they can be better paid. Does this mean that we do not want higher teachers' salaries? The answer is, of course not. Let me tell you what the answer is to this question. One of the major problems in American education is to provide not just classrooms. It is to provide the teachers for those classrooms who will produce the kind of learning our children must have. In order to get that kind of teacher we have to do a better job of paying the teachers than we have been doing. But we say that the better way to get at this problem is through a program of Federal support for construction which will release funds that can be used to maintain higher standards for teachers' salaries. There is another thing which needs to be considered. We want better classrooms and better construction. We want better salaries for our teachers. But let us never forget that in American education we also want to preserve freedom, and one of the essences of freedom in this country is local and State control of the educational system of America. That is why we say that a Federal program should be one that will deal with the problem, but also one that will never place in the hands of bureaucrats in Washington the right to pay our teachers, and inevitably give them the power to tell the teachers what to teach. So much for these differences. I can summarize simply in this way. The platform that we adopted at Chicago, in contrast to the platform that our opponents adopted in Los Angeles, was closer to the great principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson than theirs. And because it was closer to the principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, millions of Democrats this year (as they did in 1952 and 1956) will vote for our party at the national level - not because they are leaving their party, but because their party left them in its platform at Los Angeles. Let me speak now of a more important issue. I am sure when you heard the words "more important" some of you thought: "What could be more important than education for our children, a better job, adequate hospitals and health care, all these things that I have mentioned ?" The answer is: "We can have the best social security system, the best education, the best jobs that we can imagine, and it is not going to do any good unless we are around to enjoy them." So I urge all of you, without regard to your partisan affiliations, to have this major issue in mind as you go to the polls on election day: "Which of the two candidates, which of the two tickets, do you believe best provides the kind of leadership that will keep the peace for America and keep it without a surrender of principle?" Here we think we have a good record. We have a record that goes back 8 years. During these years we find that the United States got out of one war. She has kept out of other possible conflicts, and she has peace today. But in looking to the future, and building on this record we realize the problems that we confront are terribly difficult. So I would like to outline to you briefly tonight the kind of policies that I believe America can and should adopt if we are to keep the peace for ourselves and particularly for our children, without surrender. First, we must of course maintain military strength second to none. We have such strength today, and we have the power and the will to keep that strength in the years ahead. We keep this strength not because we want war but because we know this is a deterrent to war which will keep any potential aggressor from launching it. Second, in addition to that military strength, we need to keep the economy of this country strong and sound, productive and free, so that we can maintain the massive lead that we have over the Soviet empire. We think we can do this. Third, we must create new instruments, and make the old ones more effective, for peace in the world. I refer, for example, to the enlightened study which Duke University is sponsoring for developing better means of substituting the rule of law for the rule of force in international affairs. This is a goal toward which we must constantly work. I also point out on this score that I am very proud that our convention at Chicago nominated for Vice President a man who will be a working Vice President, a man who knows the Soviet threat as well as any man in the world, and a man who will work as a partner with me in strengthening the United Nations and other bodies which can keep the peace, Henry Cabot Lodge. We must do these things then. We must keep America strong militarily. We must keep her strong economically; we must develop the instruments which will keep the peace. And for this, we believe we offer a program which the American people will consider and can and will support. But I go a step further. It is not enough just to hold the line. We must recognize that we are challenged today by a force which is aggressive, a force that is determined to conquer the world. The Communists prefer to gain their objective without war, but they say that their objective is to work for the victory of communism throughout the world. The only effective answer to those who are working for the victory of communism is to work for the victory of freedom throughout the world. This is what we stand for in this campaign and in the years ahead. We must recognize that we live in a changing world. In Asia, in Africa, in Latin America, the people are determined to have a better way of life. We might like, I am sure, to be able to draw within our shell and not be concerned about their problems. But we cannot do that because someone else is concerned with them, and if they are confronted with the terrible choice of progress at the cost of freedom or staying where they are, they will take progress at the cost of freedom. So America must face up to this. Our leaders must face up to it. Our people must face up to it. We must provide the aid - but beyond that the assistance and the device - which will enable the peoples of the world to have progress which they want and should have, and to have it with and through freedom. It must not be at the cost of freedom as the Communists insist they take it. I am convinced that we do have the strength, and we will develop more, to win this struggle and win it without war. But it is going to take leadership. It is going to take leadership which will be calm in the time of crisis, leadership which will be firm, but leadership which will not be belligerent. Because never must we indulge in the war of words which might heat up the international atmosphere to the point that a nuclear catastrophe would come to the whole world. Now there is one further point that I should make in this respect. Millions of people tonight are trying to determine which way they will go. I am speaking still of the millions of people whom I referred to a moment ago. Their decisions will determine our future, their future, and the world's future. These people are looking at the United States. They are looking at it to see how freedom works. We have so much to be proud of - our history of economic progress our history of military strength, our great achievement in science and space. To all of these we can point with pride. Yet, it is the responsibility of every American to do everything that he can to make this country a proud example of freedom and the recognition of human dignity in the world. I am very proud to he able to come to North Carolina, and I am proud to commend the people of this State and its leaders, not only on the progress that you have made in education, but also in the progress that you have made, are making, and will continue to make in the field of human rights. Having spent 3 years in this State, I recognize the difficulty of this problem. I know how complex it is. I know that all of you realize the conviction that I have on this subject. I am proud of the record of this administration in this field. I believe that our Republican platform is one that is sound. I believe it is one that sets attainable objectives. And I believe that men and women of good will who have the opportunity to study the platform will agree with what I have said. But as I say this, I also recognize that law alone, while necessary, is not the answer to the problem of human rights. It was a law school professor who told my class in contracts during my first year at Duke:  Ladies and gentlemen, remember that a contract is only as good as the will of the parties to keep it. We must remember also that law is only as good as the will of the people to obey it. That is why it is the responsibility - and I want you to know that I recognize this responsibility - of those of us in positions of leadership, not just to pass laws, but to provide the kind of leadership which will promote within the people in the States the desire and the will to keep the law and to make progress in the solution of these difficult problems. This is the way to progress. It is a way that I am sure you will support in this audience and in this State. And now may I bring my remarks to a close by looking for a moment into the future and by sharing with you my faith - and I think what will be your faith - with regard to that future. When we pick up our papers these days we read news which is disconcerting. We read of trouble in Laos, troubles in Japan, troubles in the Congo, Gary Powers on trial in Moscow. And people often ask me: "Isn't this a terrible world in which we live - with all of these troubles?" And my answer is: We live in the most exciting time in the history of America, or of civilization, or of the world. Oh, we can fail all right, and the world may be blown up and everybody in it. We might lose this struggle without a shot being fired if we don't have the vision that we need. But, believe me, we are not going to fail, we are not going to fail because we are on the right side, the side of freedom and justice. We are on the side of freedom, of justice, of belief in God and the dignity of man. Arrayed against us are the forces of communism, of slavery, and of tyranny. In such a struggle we cannot lose provided our faith is stronger than theirs. It must be, and it will be provided we work harder than they do. And we can and we will, provided we have the leadership that America needs; the leadership that will inspire our people, all of our people, to their best efforts in these critical years ahead. I cannot stand before you, this audience; and say to you that I and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, are the only men that can provide this leadership. That is not for me to decide, or for him, or for our opponents. It is for you to decide. I only say this to you again: While I am proud to be the nominee of my party, I do not present our ease to America simply on the basis of my partisan label. The issues are more important than any party. What we need today is a vote for leadership for America. So I ask you to study the issues and study our background. Then, if you believe we can and do provide the hope for the leadership that America needs, you do your part. Do not just go to the polls and vote. Work, work for the candidates of your choice. My friends, when we look at the great history of this country, we find that the American people have had very good judgment in their choice of leadership in the Presidency. Some of our great Presidents have been Democrats and some have been Republicans, but in any event the people have usually shown great and good judgment. Tonight I have great faith in this country, in its future, in our ideals, and in our principles, and I have great faith in our people. So I say to you: Consider our case, make up your minds, and then work and vote, not just for a man, not just for a party, but work and vote for a better America in a new world, a world of peace and justice and freedom for all mankind.
Mr. KLEIN. We would like to restrict the press conference today, as we normally do, to the working press, and so I would like to ask that as you ask questions of the Vice President you identify yourself by name and by the name of the publication or station for which you work. By doing this, we can be certain that it is kept to the working press. For the benefit of those who have not traveled with us, I might just outline briefly what the Vice President's schedule is. The Vice President has had a busy day in Washington in which he started out in the Senate this morning and conferred with a great number of Senators there. He has been working on a paper which will be released on Sunday giving his views on communism prior to takeoff. He also worked considerably on the speech which you know he will make a little later this evening at the Coliseum. Immediately after the talk at the Coliseum he and Mrs. Nixon will fly back to Washington so he can attend a meeting of the National Security Council at 8:30 tomorrow morning. He plans to be in Washington the remainder of the time until next Wednesday, at which time he will go to Detroit to make a talk before the VFW, which is having its national convention in that city. This evening, he will go immediately from this press conference to the Coliseum where he will meet with some of his friends from Duke University. Flying with him on the plane coming down here were Congressman Jonas, who is the Republican Congressman from North Carolina, and also Mrs. Jonas; also two of his Duke friends who were in law school at the same time when he was. He included Mr. Lyman Brownfield and Charles Ryan, who was a former president of the American Bar Association and has been one of his very active supporters. Both of these gentlemen are now attorneys now practicing law in Washington. We plan to have sufficient time at the end of the Vice President's talk tonight for filing copy for those who are traveling with us. The main thing that we would like to urge is that immediately after this press conference you board the buses so that we can get you to the Coliseum where there will be sufficient opportunity to write and file. While we are waiting, if you have any questions regarding the schedule, or any of the Vice President's activities, I will be glad to answer them and he will be here shortly to answer your general questions. I might say that this is, as you know, his first campaign trip to the South since his acceptance speech. The acceptance speech he made in Chicago, you may be interested in knowing, has resulted in about 30,000 letters coming into our office, many of them from Democrats who have been very enthusiastic in their support and praised him very highly for his speech. Many of you probably noticed the polls today, which showed the great impact at the Republican Convention. Here is the Vice President. Vice President NIXON. Sorry to keep you waiting, ladies and gentlemen, but, as you probably know, we had air traffic problems in Washington, not in Greensboro, and so it was not because we started late, because we had these problems, so you go right ahead with your questions. (Question garbled.) Vice President NIXON. Can you all hear the question? The question is: How do I evaluate my prospects in the South as of now? Well, as of the present time, I would say, speaking realistically, it is difficult to evaluate prospects in any part of the country; however, the reports we have received from various Southern States have been surprisingly encouraging. Now, I always recognize that such reports must be read having in mind the fact that your supporters are usually enthusiastic after a convention and they tend to overestimate your chances rather than to underestimate them. But I would say that on the basis of the reports that I have received to date since the convention, the South, on the basis, too of what polls have been taken, that we feel that we have a good chance to carry several Southern States. And I would say further that, as I indicated in my acceptance speech, we do not intend not only not to take for granted any States in the North, or Midwest or Far West, but we don't intend to write off any State. We are going to campaign in all States in the South, as well as in the East, North, and West. LLOYD GORDON, WBIG News. What is your position on civil rights in the South, and how much do you intend to push the plank of the Republican Party platform in comparison with the Democratic plank? Vice President NIXON. How much do I intend to put it--- Mr. GORDON. How much do you intend to push that particular civil rights plank? In comparison with the Democratic plank? Vice President NIXON. The question is: What is my position on civil rights in the South, and to what extent do I intend to push the Republican plank in comparison with the Democratic platform plank? I think everybody is aware of the strong conviction I have on the issue of civil rights. I am proud of the record of this administration on that issue. I believe that the Republican Party platform is superior to the Democratic platform in several respects, but particularly in the sense that it is responsible. It is an honest platform. It does not promise more than can be achieved. Its legislative proposals are ones that we think are reasonable, and that if they were enacted would help the cause of better understanding and progress in this field, rather than to set it back. I believe there are several parts of the Democratic platform that are unrealistic, that promise far more than they could possibly produce, and that actually would set the cause back. Now, as far as our program is concerned, you indicate in your question what will be the position in the South, and, of course, the answer is that the position in the South is the same as it is in the North and the East and the West. I speak on the subject with considerable knowledge of the problem. Here I am in North Carolina, where I, of course, as you know spent 3 years of my life attending law school. I know that it is a difficult and complex problem. I know that there are many, many men and women of good will in this State and States throughout the South, for that matter in States throughout the country, that are working for the solution to this problem. I do not believe in coming into the South and speaking in a way that will make the issue more difficult to solve for purposes of winning or influencing votes in the West, or the North, or the Midwest, as the case might be. I don't believe in using demagogery in this field. I believe that what we need is an honest program that will produce progress, and then I would add this last point. I think that it is essential for all of us to recognize that any law that we pass in this field, and legislation of the proper type, is necessary and can be helpful; but that any law that we pass in this field will only be as effective as public support for that law is developed. But I think that one of the primary responsibilities of the President of the United States is to help to develop understanding of, and support for, the legislative proposals. And in conclusion I would say that certainly in North Carolina we have an example of a State in which great progress has been made. In voting rights, we know that there is no problem. In the field of employment, considerable progress; and in the field of education, a start toward the carrying out of the Supreme Court's decision. This answer has been longer than I should have made it, but I knew there was great interest in it. Mr. DUFFEE of the United Press International. Greensboro is, of course, the home of the sitdown strikes. Would you clarify for us in a few words your own position as far as supporting the principal sitdown strikes; Vice President NIXON. The question is: That Greensboro is the home - I think perhaps that I would rather say that it is the first city in which a sit-in strike occurred, and would I, therefore, clarify, my own position with regard to so-called sit-in demonstrations? I support the objective which sit-in demonstrations were intended to achieve, and that is that any American who is entitled to go into a store to buy products should have the same right as any other American to use all the facilities of that store without discrimination. This is an objective that I think reasonable people in all parts of the country can and should support. As far as the means for the purpose of achieving that objective is concerned, we there have to look at the legal problems involved; and in this case we will note that in some instances questions have arisen: One, as to whether or not local laws which, in effect, provide that a store should, and as a matter of fact, must discriminate, whether those are constitutional; and on the other hand, we have the legal question of whether or not a demonstration is in violation of law. As far as these legal problems are concerned, they, of course, must he determined by the courts. I would say in this respect that all Americans support the right to peaceful demonstrations and certainly as far as the legality is concerned we will abide by whatever decisions the courts eventually hand down. But in the final analysis, I wish to emphasize that the way to meet this problem and to solve it, I think has been well indicated by the recent action of the Attorney General sitting down on a voluntary basis with no coercion with major operators of chainstores and having them reach the decision, which they did voluntarily, to deal with this problem before it became necessary for other means to be used so that pressure was put upon them to get action. As I look at this whole problem of discrimination in areas like this in the South and other parts of the country - and may I say parenthetically as I have said in all parts of the country, this issue is not just a southern problem, it is a national problem, it exists in the West, in the Midwest and the North as well in varying degrees - but as I look at this whole question, we have to realize that waiting for the wall is not an adequate answer. What we must do is to develop the leadership in all levels of government, and in the information, opinion making media of our society, which will result in voluntary progress toward this end. We accomplish far more, far quicker, if we move in this direction as the Attorney General did move with the cooperation of the [inaudible] themselves. Yes. (Question garbled.) Vice President NIXON. The question is: Do I have any comment to make on the trial of Mr. Powers which opened today in Moscow? I have not had an opportunity to read the transcript of the trial to date or even the newspaper reports. But I will say that I will be glad to comment on those comments that were made by the Soviet press and radio prior to the trial. They indicated that not Mr. Powers was on trial, but that the United States was on trial. And my response to this would be there could be no more damning indictment of Soviet justice than this. Because we all know that justice and guilt are individual, and that as far as Mr. Powers is concerned, he is entitled to be tried on the basis of his individual actions, and that his case should not be tried on the basis of international issues, as the Soviet Government apparently intends to present it. I would say further that, as far as this trial is concerned, when people raise the question to the effect that American prestige suffers because the Soviet Union is trying Powers, my answer is that I don't think that our prestige does suffer from this. I think the people of the world are sophisticated enough that they realize that this trial points up the reason why activities have been ordered by the President of the United States. And the reason was the aggressive actions, the potentially aggressive actions of the leaders of the Soviet Union. I think the longer the trial goes on the more it will bring home to the peoples of the world that we were only trying here to protect our own security and to gain information which would avoid surprise attack. Mr. Levine and (name not identifiable). (Question garbled.) Vice President NIXON. The question is: That at the present time there are two bills stuck in the House Rules Committee, one, the school bill and one, the housing bill: Will I use my influence to get those bills out of the House Rules Committee? My answer is that first my influence should not be necessary because the Rules Committee is controlled by the Democrats, the opposition party, 8 to 4, and any bill that Democratic leadership really wants, Mr. Rayburn can get out of that committee, I am confident. The second point that I would say as far as the Republican members of that committee are concerned, that I certainly would use my influence to get out a bill from the Rules Committee if the bill could be gotten out in a form which could be sent to the President so that he could sign it. I do not believe that Republican members of the Rules Committee should be asked to send the bill to the floor, which they knew in advance the opposition were trying to send to the President for the purpose of having the veto. And that, incidentally, is the fact with regard to the school bill at the moment. The Democratic leadership, as far as the school bill is concerned, wants to send a bill down to the President that he could veto; the Republicans are insistent on a bill that meets the President's specifications, and I think the people want a bill and not an issue on schools and housing, for that matter, as well. Now, Mr. Kaplow. Mr. KAPLOW. Mr. Vice President, what do you think we ought to do about Cuba? Vice President NIXON. The question is: What do I think we ought to do about Cuba? And my answer is that I think we are doing the right things at this point. We have a very difficult problem here. I know that there are many who suggest that the United States should take, should use a much stronger stand economically, politically, even to the extent as some have suggested of sending in military forces and the like. And the difficulty with those procedures are that they would be counter-productive in the long run at this time. As the President has indicated, the United States cannot and we will not tolerate the setting up in Cuba of a foreign-controlled Communist government. But I believe that at the present time, the economic actions that we have taken, the fact that we are working successfully in developing support among the other American Republics for a position which is critical of the Castro regime, I think these two steps are in the right direction, and until we see what the net result will be of these actions, I don't believe that the United States should go further, and possibly by going further set in motion a reaction against this in all the Latin American countries, as well as among the Cuban people themselves, whom we are trying to win. QUESTION. There has been a considerable amount of publicity given to the statements that Mr. Khrushchev directed about you as a prospective President. There has also been some publicity which has been resulting in argument as to how he feels about your opponent. I wonder if you would care to comment on Mr. Khrushchev's statements about you. Vice President NIXON. I think all of you could hear that question, could you not? The question often arises as to what influence Mr. Khrushchev may have in the American election, and my answer is that he should have none; and I believe that, as far as the great majority of the American people, will have none. I am sure that Senator Kennedy would not welcome any complimentary comments if they were made about him, and I am sure that as far as I am concerned the fact that he said something derogatory or complimentary would not affect me to any extent. In this field, what we have to realize, of course, is that Mr. Khrushchev is pretty far from the American scene he is a man who sometimes speaks quite impulsively, and I would suggest that all Americans should take everything he says about the American election with a grain of salt, and perhaps two or three grains of salt. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President (name unidentifiable) of the New York Times. North Carolina, along with other Southern States, have right to work laws. Would you please tell us what your position is on these laws? Vice President NIXON. I will be glad to. North Carolina and other States have right-to-work laws, and my position is that: one, any State should have a right to adopt a right-to-work law if it wishes. That is one of the reasons why I support section 14B of the Taft-Hartley Act, which grants that right, why I oppose repeal of that section. Repeal of that section, of course, is advocated, by the Democratic platform adopted in Los Angeles. As far as the right-to-work law, itself, is concerned, I oppose any such law nationally. I believe this is a matter which should be handled by the States and not by the Federal Government, and as far as those laws in the States are concerned, well, I believe each State should determine whether under its circumstances it feels those laws would be helpful or harmful in developing labor relations which best serve the interests of union members, as well as the general public. My own analysis of the situation has shown that those laws in many States have not been too effective in accomplishing the objective toward which they are aiming. But I say that each State should have the right to determine what they want to do in these laws without interference from the Federal Government. QUESTION. (Name and publication unidentifiable.) Sir, will you, in your southern campaign travels, insist on nonsegregated audiences, or will you observe local customs? Vice President NIXON. The question is: Will I insist on nonsegregated audiences in the southern campaign tours, or will we observe local custom. We will try to have nonsegregated audiences wherever we possibly can, and we will, of course, have one tonight. I think we are going to be able to attain that objective in the States (garbled). QUESTION. You mention that you may, you hope to carry several Southern States. Would you care to evaluate your chances in North and South Carolina? Vice President NIXON. The question is: That we hope to carry several Southern States; what are our chances at this time in North and South Carolina? I've had very little information from South Carolina, so I would make no evaluation of that. As far as North Carolina is concerned, we have been greatly encouraged by what we have heard from our leaders down here, both Republican leaders and leaders of the volunteer organization, which, of course, crossed party lines; and we are also encouraged by the fact that in 1956 our ticket did so well here. I would say that North Carolina is one of those Southern States where we think we have a chance to win. It is not one of those States where we not only are not writing it off, but are not just here for the ride. We came first for two reasons: (1) Because there were some sentimental reasons, as you are well aware; (2) because we believe this is one of the States which will be a battleground. And I can only say we're going to put a real fight on in North Carolina. QUESTION. Similarities between the two party platforms have often been pointed out. Do you feel that this will help or hinder a genuine two-party system development in the South? Vice President NIXON. Similarities between the two party platforms have been pointed out; will this help or hinder a genuine two-party system in the South? I am going to cover parts of that in my talk tonight. It will be necessary to generalize and I will spell that out in further talks in the course of the campaign. But I will say this that while there are similarities in our platforms, in the field economic policy the two platforms could not be more different than they are, because basically the Democratic platform, completely departing from the principles of Jefferson, Jackson, and Wilson, starts in solution of all problems with a massive Federal Government program. The Republican platform starts at the other end of the spectrum with respect for and encouragement of local and State responsibilities, with the Federal Government stepping in only when necessary and not at the beginning. And it seems to me that that major difference in solving our problems with regard to schools, our problems with regard to economic progress in all areas, that that major difference is one that should have very great appeal in the South, as well as in other parts of the country. QUESTION. For some time now leaders of the textile industry in North Carolina have been critical of the present administration for what they call the failure to restrict the import of low-price textiles from places such as Japan and Hong Kong. They say that if the present trend of increasing imports continues, they may be forced to relocate their plants overseas, and this move would leave thousands of North Carolina plants unemployed. Would you care to comment on that? Vice President NIXON. I think all of you could hear that question. I won't repeat it. I can say that I heard a great deal on that question from Spencer Love and others who are, of course, very interested in this textile problem here. My answer is that I am currently making a study of this whole problem, having in mind the arguments that are made by those who are involved in the industry, and also having in mind the foreign policy considerations. I would say only by way of introduction that I will cover this subject at a later time in more detail and more specifically. I can say by way of introduction of the subject that in mentioning Japan and Hong Kong that I feel that one of the most effective things that can be done, and is being done to an extent now, must be done even more in the future, is to get countries like that, that are sending in textiles to the United States, to get them on a voluntary basis to limit what they send in as they, for example, are doing in the case of tuna, to use one case, to limit their imports because if they do not, the pressures in this country for action even on the quota basis or tariff basis will become almost impossible to resist. This is a complicated problem I will cover at a later point and in more detail. QUESTION. Bermyer (magazine garbled). What use are you planning to make of the academic advisory group with which you met the other day? What purpose do such groups serve in a campaign? Vice President NIXON. The academic advisory group that I met the other day serves a number of purposes. One, I might say that I have met with this group before. I had an all-day session with them just before the convention in Chicago. They serve the purpose of discussing general issues. In addition to that, each member of the group sends ideas in to me, ideas which emanate from outside the Government, which gives me new approaches to problems. Each one of them is a critique, a very constructive critique, a critique of anything that I do, and I encourage that. And in addition to that, I give various members of the group assignments to make studies in areas of concern. As a matter of fact, the textile problem to which you have referred, the earlier question to which you referred, I have assigned to Dr. Arthur Burns to make a study for me, and he is doing so at this time. (Question garbled.) Vice President NIXON. The question is: Do I plan to make any substantial changes in America's foreign policy, if and when elected this November? I think that the general course of American foreign policy is sound. I think that we are on the right road. I have some new ideas with regard to organization, for example, of the nonmilitary aspects of the world struggle. I touched upon this briefly in my acceptance speech. I intend to elaborate on it in detail during the course of the campaign. I would add only, further, that Ambassador Lodge is working very closely with me on this and during the course of the campaign he will make at least two mayor policy talks in the foreign policy area, suggesting new programs building upon the programs we already have. (Question garbled.) Vice President NIXON. The question is: We hear a lot of the religious issue here in the South; how do I intend to deal with it in the campaign? I have said on several occasions that I do not believe that religion is a proper issue in any campaign; that the way to keep it from being an issue which influences the voters is not to talk about it. The more we talk about it, the more people are going to be thinking about it. And so the way I am going to deal with the religious issue is to talk always about other issues and not about that one.
The major problem confronting the people of the United States and free peoples everywhere in the last half of the 20th century is the threat to peace and freedom presented by the militant aggressiveness of international communism. A major weakness in this struggle is lack of adequate imderstanding of the character of the challenge which communism presents. I am convinced that we are on the right side in this struggle and that we are well ahead now in its major aspects. But if we are to maintain our advantage and assure victory in the struggle, we must develop, not only among the leaders, but among the people of the free world a better understanding of the threat which confronts us. The question is not one of being for or against communism. The time is long past when any significant number of Americans contend that communism is no particular concern of theirs. Few can still believe that communism is simply a curious and twisted philosophy which happens to appeal to a certain number of zealots but which constitutes no serious threat to the interests or ideals of free society. The days of indifference are gone. The danger today in our attitude toward communism is of a very different kind. It lies in the fact that we have come to abhor communism so much that we no longer recognize the necessity of understanding it. We see the obvious dangers. We recognize that we must retain our present military and economic advantage over the Communist bloc, an advantage which deters a hot war and which counters the Communist threat in the cold war. In the fields of rocket technology and space exploration, we have risen to the challenge and we will keep the lead that we have gained. There is no question that the American people generally will support whatever programs our leaders initiate in these fields. What we must realize is that this struggle probably will not be decided in the military, economic, or scientific areas, important as these are. The battle in which we are engaged is primarily one of ideas. The test is one not so much of arms but of faith. If we are to win a contest of ideas we must know their ideas as well as our own. Our knowledge must not be superficial. We cannot be content with simply an intuition that communism is wrong. It is not enough to rest our case alone on the assertions, true as they are, that communism denies God, enslaves men, and destroys justice. We must recognize that the appeal of the Communist idea is not to the masses, as the Communists would have us believe, but more often to an intelligent minority in newly developing countries who are trying to decide which system offers the best and surest road to progress. We must cut through the exterior to the very heart of the Communist idea. We must come to understand the weaknesses of communism as a system - why after more than 40 years on trial it continues to disappoint so many aspirations, why it has failed in its promise of equality in abundance, why it has produced a whole library of disillusionment and a steady stream of men, women, and children seeking to escape its blight. But we must also come to understand its strength - why it has so securely entrenched itself in the U.S.S.R., why it has been able to accomplish what it has in the field of education and science, why in some of the problem areas of the world it continues to appeal to leaders aspiring to a better life for their people. It is to find the answers to these questions that in this statement I want to discuss communism as an idea - its economic philosophy, its philosophy of law and politics, its philosophy of history. This statement will admittedly not be simple because the subject is complex. It will not be brief because nothing less than a knowledge in depth of the Communist idea is necessary if we are to deal with it effectively. In discussing the idea I will not offer programs to meet it. I intend in a later statement to discuss the tactics and vulnerabilities of the Communist conspiracy and how we can best fashion a strategy for victory. I anticipate that some might understandably ask the question - why such a lengthy discussion of communism when everybody is against it already? If the free world is to win this struggle, we must have men and women who not only are against communism but who know why they are against it and who know what they are going to do about it. Communism is a false idea, and the answer to a false idea is truth, not ignorance. One of the fundamentals of the Communist philosophy is a belief that societies pass inevitably through certain stages. Each of these stages is supposed to generate the necessity for its successor. Feudalism contained within its loins the seed of capitalism; capitalism was, in other words, to supplant feudalism. Capitalism, in turn, moves inevitably toward a climax in which it will be supplanted by its appointed successor, communism. All of these things are matters of necessity and there is nothing men can do to change the inflexible sequence which history imposes. It is a part of this philosophy that, as society moves along its predestined way, each stage of development is dominated by a particular class. Feudalism was dominated by the aristocracy; capitalism by something called the bourgeoisie; communism by the proletariat. During any particular stage of society's development the whole of human life within that society is run and rigged for the benefit of the dominant class; no one else counts for anything and the most he can expect is the leftover scraps. In the end, of course, with the final triumph of communism, classes will disappear - what was formerly the proletariat will expand so that it is the only class, and, since there are no longer any outsiders that it can dominate, there will in effect be no classes at all. Now this theory of successive stages of development makes it clear that, if we are to understand communism, we must understand the Communist view of capitalism, for, according to Communist theory, capitalism contains within itself the germs of communism. The Communist notion of capitalism is that it is a market economy, an economy of "free trade, free selling and buying," to quote the manifesto again. It follows from this that, since communism inevitably supplants and destroys capitalism, it cannot itself be anything like market economy. The fundamental belief of the Communist economic philosophy therefore is a negative one; namely, a belief that, whatever the economic system of mature communism may turn out to be, it cannot be a market economy; it cannot - in the words of the Communist Manifesto - be an economy based on "free trade, free selling and buying." It may be well at this point to digress for the purpose of recalling the curious fact that the literature of communism contains so many praises for the achievements of capitalism. The manifesto contains these words about the market economy of capitalism and its alleged overlords, the bourgeoisie:  It has accomplished wonders far surpassing Egyptian pyramids, Roman aqueducts, and Gothic cathedrals; it has conducted expeditions that put in the shade all former migrations of nations and crusades. * * * The bourgeoisie, during its rule of scarce 100 years (the manifesto speaks from the year 1848), has created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together. Subjection of Nature's forces to man, machinery, application of chemistry to industry and agriculture, steam navigation, railways, electric telegraphs, clearing of whole continents for cultivation, canalization of rivers, whole populations conjured out of the ground - what earlier century had even a presentiment that such productive forces slumbered in the lap of social labor? Marx and Engels could afford this praise for capitalism because they supposed it would everywhere be succeeded by communism, a stage of society whose glories would in turn dwarf all the achievements of capitalism. Communism would build on capitalism and bring a new economy that would make the capitalist world look like a poorhouse. Those who constituted the dominant class of capitalism, the bourgeoisie, would have performed their historic mission and would be dismissed from the scene - dismissed without thanks, of course, for after all they only accomplished what was foreordained by the forces of history, forces that were now to throw them into the discard like the husk of a sprouting seed. One of the most startling gaps in the Communist theory is the lack of any clear notion of how a Communist economy would be organized. In the writings of the great founders of communism there is virtually nothing on this subject. This gap was not an oversight, but was in fact a necessary consequence of the general theory of communism. That theory taught, in effect, that as a society moves inevitably from one level of development to another, there is no way of knowing what the next stage will demand until in fact it has arrived. Communism will supplant and destroy the market economy of capitalism. What will its own economy be like? That we cannot know until we are there and have a chance to see what the world looks like without any institution resembling an economic market. The manifesto, in fact, expresses a deep contempt for "utopian socialists" who propose "an organization of society specially contrived" by them, instead of waiting out the verdict of history and depending on the "spontaneous class organization of the proletariat." The Communist economy would organize itself according to principles that would become apparent only when the arena had been cleared of the market principle. Operating then, in this vacuum of guidance left behind by their prophets, how did the founders of the Soviet Union proceed to organize their new economy? The answer is that they applied as faithfully as they could the teachings of their masters. Since those teachings were essentially negative, their actions had to have the same quality. They started by attempting to root out from the Russian scene every vestige of the market principle, even discouraging the use of money, which they hoped soon to abolish altogether. The production and distribution of goods were put under central direction, the theory being that the flow of goods would be directed by social need without reference to principles of profit and loss. This experiment began in 1919 and came to an abrupt end in March of 1921. It was a catastrophic failure. It brought with it administrative chaos and an almost inconceivable disorder in economic affairs, culminating in appalling shortages of the most elementary necessities. Competent scholars estimate its cost in Russian lives at 5 million. The official Russian version of this experiment does not deny that it was an enormous failure. It attributes that failure to inexperience and to a mythical continuation of military operations, which had in fact almost wholly ceased. Meanwhile the Russian economy has been moving steadily toward the market principle. The flow of labor is controlled by wages, so that the price of labor is itself largely set by market forces. The spread from top to bottom of industrial wages is in many cases wider than it is in this country. Managerial efficiency is promoted by substantial economic incentives in the form of bonuses and even more substantial perquisites of various kinds. Enterprises are run on a profit and loss basis. Indeed, there are all the paraphernalia of an advanced commercial society, with lawyers, accountants, balance sheets, taxes of many kinds, direct and indirect, and finally even the pressures of a creeping inflation. The allocation of resources in Russia probably now comes about as close to being controlled by the market principle as is possible where the government owns all the instruments of production. Russian economists speak learnedly of following the "Method of Balances." This impressive phrase stands for a very simple idea. It means that in directing production and establishing prices an effort is made to come out even, so that goods for which there is an insufficient demand will not pile up, while shortages will not develop in other fields where demand exceeds supply. The "Method of Balances" turns out to be something a lot of us learned about in school as the law of supply and demand. All of this is not to say that the Russian economy has fully realized the market principle. There are two obstacles that block such a development. The first lies in the fact that there is a painful tension between what has to be done to run the economy efficiently and what ought to be happening according to orthodox theory. The result is that the Russian economist has to be able to speak out of both sides of his mouth at the same time. He has to be prepared at all times for sudden shifts of the party line. If today he is condemned as an "unprincipled revisionist" who apes capitalist methods, tomorrow he may be jerked from the scene for having fallen into a "sterile orthodoxy", not realizing that Marxism is a developing and creative science. The other obstacle to the realization of a free market lies in the simple fact that the government owns the whole of industry. This means, for one thing, that the industrial units are huge, so that all of steel, or all of cosmetics, for example, is under a single direction. This naturally creates the economic condition known as oligopoly and the imperfectly functioning market which attends that condition. Furthermore, a realization of the market principle would require the managers of the various units of industry to act as if they were doing something they are not, that is, as if they were directing independent enterprises. Understandably there is a considerable reluctance to assume this fictitious role, since the manager's reward for an inconvenient independence may well be a trip to Siberia where he is likely nowadays, they say, to be made chief bookkeeper in a tiny power plant 300 miles from the nearest town. Meanwhile, a constant theme of complaint by Moscow against the managers is that they are too "cousinly" with one another and that they are too addicted to "back scratching." They ought to be acting like capitalist entrepreneurs, but they find this a little difficult when they are all working for the same boss. One of the most familiar refrains of Communist propaganda is that "capitalism is dying of its internal contradictions." In fact, it would be hard to imagine a system more tortured by internal contradictions than present-day Russia. It constantly has to preach one way and act another. When Russian economists and managers discover that they have to do something that seems to contradict the prophets, they usually don't know which of three justifications - all hazardous - they ought to attempt: (1) to explain their action as a temporary departure from Marxist propriety to be corrected in a more propitious future; (2) to show that what they are doing can be justified by the inherited text if it is read carefully and between the lines; or (3) to invoke the cliché that Marxism is a progressive science that learns by experience - we can't after all, expect Marx, Engels, and Lenin to have foreseen everything. These inner tensions and perplexities help to explain the startling "shifts in the party line" that characterize all of the Communist countries. It is true that these shifts sometimes reflect the outcome of a subterranean personal power struggle within the party. But we must remember that they also at times result from the struggles of conscientious men trying to fit an inconvenient text to the facts of reality. The yawning gap in Communist theory, by which it says nothing about how the economy shall be run except that it shall not be by the market principle, will continue to create tensions, probably of mounting intensity, within and among the Communist nations. The most painful compromise that it has so far necessitated occurred when it was decided that trade among the satellite countries should be governed by the prices set on the world market. This embarrassing concession to necessity recognized, on the one hand, that a price cannot be meaningful unless it is set by something like a market, and, on the other, the inability of the Communist system to develop a reliable pricing system within its own government-managed economy. The Communist theory has now had a chance to prove itself by an experience extending over two generations in a great nation of huge human and material resources. What can we learn from this experience? We can learn, first of all, that it is impossible to run an advanced economy successfully without resort to some variant of the market principle. In time of war, when costs are largely immaterial and all human efforts converge on a single goal, the market principle can be subordinated. In a primitive society, where men live on the verge of extinction and all must be content with the same meager ration, the market principle largely loses its relevance. But when society's aim is to satisfy divers human wants and to deploy its productive facilities in such a way as to satisfy those wants in accordance with their intensity - their intensity as felt by those who have the wants - there is and can be no substitute for the market principle. This the Russian experience proves abundantly. That experience also raises serious doubt whether the market principle can be realized within an economy wholly owned by the government. The second great lesson of the Russian experience is of deeper import. It is that communism is utterly wrong about its most basic premise, the premise that underlies everything it has to say about economics, law, philosophy, morality, and religion. Communism starts with the proposition that there are no universal truths or general truths of human nature. According to its teachings there is nothing one human age can say to another about the proper ordering of society or about such subjects as justice, freedom, and equality. Everything depends on the stage of society and the economic class that is in power at a particular time. In the light of this fundamental belief - or rather, this unbending and all-pervasive disbelief - it is clear why communism had to insist that what was true for capitalism could not be true for communism. Among the truths scheduled to die with capitalism was the notion that economic life could be usefully ordered by a market. If this truth seems still to be alive, orthodox Communist doctrine has to label it as an illusion, a ghost left behind by an age now being surpassed. At the present time this particular capitalist ghost seems to have moved in on the Russian economy and threatens to become a permanent guest at the Communist banquet. Let us hope it will soon be joined by some other ghosts, such as freedom, political equality, religion, and constitutionalism. This brings me to the Communist view of law and politics. Of the Communist legal and political philosophy, we can almost say that there is none. This lack is, again, not an accident, but is an integral part of the systematic negations which make up the Communist philosophy. According to Marx and Engels, the whole life of any society is fundamentally determined by the organization of its economy. What men will believe; what gods, if any, they will worship; how they will choose their leaders or let their leaders choose themselves; how they will interpret the world about them - all of these are basically determined by economic interests and relations. In the jargon of communism: religion, morality, philosophy, political science, and law constitute a superstructure which reflects the underlying economic organization of a particular society. It follows that subjects which fall within the superstructure permit of no general truths; for example, what is true for law and political science under capitalism cannot be true under communism. I have said we can almost assert that there is no Communist philosophy of law and political science. The little there is can be briefly stated. It consists in the assumption that after the revolution there will be a dictatorship (called the dictatorship of the proletariat) and that this dictatorship will for a while find it necessary to utilize some of the familiar political and legal institutions, such as courts. (There is an incredibly tortured literature about just how these institutions are to be utilized and with what modifications.) When, however, mature communism is achieved, law and the state, in the consecrated phrase, "will wither away." There will be no voting, no parliaments, no judges, no policemen, no prisons - no problems. There will simply be factories and fields and a happy populace peacefully reveling in the abundance of their output. As with economic theory, there was a time in the history of the Soviet regime when an attempt was made to take seriously the absurdities of this Communist theory of law and state. For about a decade during the thirties an influential doctrine was called the commodity exchange theory of law. According to this theory, the fundamental fact about capitalism is that it is built on the economic institution of exchange. In accordance with the doctrine of the superstructure, all political and legal institutions under capitalism must therefore be permeated and shaped by the concept of exchange. Indeed, the theory went further. Even the rules of morality are based on exchange, for is there not a kind of tacit deal implied even in the Golden Rule, "Do unto others, as you would be done by"? Now the realization of communism, which is the negation of capitalism, requires the utter rooting out of any notion of exchange in the Communist economy. But when exchange has disappeared, the political, legal, and moral superstructure that was built on it will also disappear. Therefore, under mature communism there will not only be no capitalistic legal and political institutions, there will be no law whatever, no state, no morality - for all of these in some measure reflect the underlying notion of an exchange or deal among men. The high priest of this doctrine was Eugene Pashukanis. His reign came to an abrupt end in 1937 as the inconvenience of his teachings began to become apparent. With an irony befitting the career of one who predicted that communism would bring an end to law and legal processes, Pashukanis was quietly taken off and shot without even the semblance of a trial. As in the case of economics, since Pashukanis' liquidation there has developed in Russian intellectual life a substantial gray market for capitalistic legal and political theories. But where Russian economists seem ashamed of their concessions to the market principle, Russian lawyers openly boast of their legal and political system, claiming for it that it does everything that equivalent bourgeois institutions do, only better. This boast has to be muted somewhat, because it still remains a matter of dogma that under mature communism, law and the state will disappear. This embarrassing aspect of their inherited doctrine the Soviet theorists try to keep as much as possible under the table. They cannot, however, openly renounce it without heresy, and heresy in the Soviet Union, be it remembered, still requires a very active taste for extinction. One of the leading books on Soviet legal and political theory is edited by a lawyer who is well known in this country, the late Andrei Vyshinsky. In the table-pounding manner he made famous in the U.N., Vyshinsky praises Soviet legal and political institutions to the skies and contrasts their wholesome purity with the putrid vapors emanating from the capitalist countries. He points out, for example, that in Russia the voting age is 18, while in many capitalist countries it is 21. The capitalists thus disenfranchise millions of young men and women because, says Vyshinsky, it is feared they may not yet have acquired a properly safe bourgeois mentality. As one reads arguments like this spelled out with the greatest solemnity, and learns all about the "safeguards" of the Soviet Constitution, it comes as a curious shock to find it openly declared that in the Soviet Union only one political party can legally exist and that the Soviet Constitution is "the only constitution in the world which frankly declares the directing role of the party in the state." One wonders what all the fuss about voting qualifications is about if the voters are in the end permitted only to vote for the candidates chosen by the only political party permitted to exist. The plain fact is, of course, that everything in the Soviet Constitution relating to public participation in political decisions is a facade concealing the real instrument of power that lies in the Communist Party. It has been said that hypocrisy is vice's tribute to virtue. The holding of elections in which the electorate is given no choice may similarly be described as an attempt by communism to salve its uneasy conscience. Knowing that it cannot achieve representative democracy, it seems to feel better if it adopts its empty forms. When one reflects on it, it is an astounding thing that a great and powerful nation in the second half of the 20th century should still leave its destinies to be determined by intraparty intrigue, that it should have developed no political institutions capable of giving to its people a really effective voice in their Government, that it should lack any openly declared and lawful procedure by which the succession of one ruler to another could be determined. Some are inclined to seek an explanation for this condition in Russian history with its bloody and irregular successions of czars. But this is to forget that even in England, the mother of parliaments, there were once in times long gone by some pretty raw doings behind palace walls and some unseemly and even bloody struggles for the throne. But where other nations have worked gradually toward stable political institutions guaranteeing the integrity of their governments, Russia has remained in a state of arrested development. That state will continue until the Russian leaders have the courage to declare openly that the legal and political philosophy of Marx, Engles, and Lenin is fundamentally mistaken and must be abandoned. How heavy the burden of the inherited Communist philosophy is becomes clear when the concept of law itself is under discussion. Throughout the ages, among men of all nations and creeds, law has generally been thought of as a curb on arbitrary power. It has been conceived as a way of substituting reason for force in the decision of disputes, thus liberating human energies for the pursuit of aims more worthy of man's destiny than brute survival or the domination of one's fellows. No one has supposed that these ideals have ever been fully realized in any society. Like every human institution, law is capable of being exploited for selfish purposes and of losing its course through a confusion of purposes. But during most of the world's history, men have thought that the questions worthy of discussion were how the institutions of law could be shaped so that they might not be perverted into instruments of power or lose the sense of their high mission through sloth or ignorance. What is the Communist attitude toward this intellectual enterprise in which so many great thinkers of so many past ages have joined? Communism consigns all of it to the ashcan of history as a fraud and delusion, beneath the contempt of Communist science. How, then, is law defined today in Russia? We have an authoritative answer. It is declared to be "the totality of the rules of conduct expressing the will of the dominant class, designed to promote those relationships that are advantageous and agreeable to the dominant class." Law in the Soviet Union is not conceived as a check on power, it is openly and proudly an expression of power. In this conception surely, if anywhere, the bankruptcy of communism as a moral philosophy openly declares itself. It is vitally important to emphasize again that all of the truly imposing absurdities achieved by Communist thought - in whatever field: in economics, in politics, in law, in morality - that all of these trace back to a single common source. That origin lies in a belief that nothing of universal validity can be said of human nature, that there are no principles, values, or moral truths that stand above a particular age or a particular phase in the evolution of society. This profound negation lies at the very heart of the Communist philosophy and gives to it both its motive force and its awesome capacity for destruction. It is this central negation that makes communism radically inconsistent with the ideal of human freedom. As with other bourgeois virtues, once dismissed contemptuously, Soviet writers have now taken up the line that only under communism can men realize "true freedom." This line may even have a certain persuasiveness for Russians in that individuals tend to prize those freedoms they are familiar with and not to miss those they have never enjoyed. A Russian transplanted suddenly to American soil might well feel for a time "unfree" in the sense that he would be confronted with the burden of making choices that he was unaccustomed to making and that he would regard as onerous. But the problem of freedom goes deeper than the psychological conditioning of any particular individual. It touches the very roots of man's fundamental conception of himself. The Communist philosophy is basically inconsistent with the ideal of freedom because it denies that there can be any standard of moral truth by which the actions of any given social order may be judged. If the individual says to government, "Thus far may you go, but no farther," he necessarily appeals to some principle of rightness that stands above his particular form of government. It is precisely the possibility of any such standard that communism radically and uncomprisingly denies. Marx and Engels had nothing but sneers for the idea that there are "eternal truths, such as freedom, justice, etc., that are common to all states of society." They contend that there are no eternal truths. All ideas of right and wrong come from the social system under which one lives. If that system requires tyranny and oppression, then tyranny and oppression must within that system be accepted; there can be no higher court of appeal. Not only do the premises of Communist philosophy make any coherent theory of freedom impossible, but the actual structure of the Soviet regime is such that no true sense of freedom can ever develop under it. To see why this is so, it is useful to accept the Communist ideology provisionally and reason the matter out purely in terms of what may be called human engineering. Let us concede that a struggle for political power goes on in all countries and let us assume in keeping with Marxist views that this struggle has absolutely nothing to do with right and wrong. Even from this perversely brutal point of view, it is clear why a sense of freedom can never develop under the Soviet regime. In a constitutional democracy the struggle for political power is assigned to a definite arena; it is roped off, so to speak, from the rest of life. In the Soviet Union, on the other hand, there is no clear distinction between politics and economics, or between politics and other human activities. No barriers exist to define what is a political question and what is not. Instead of being ordered and canalized as it is in constitutional democracies, the struggle for political power in Russia pervades, or can at any time pervade, every department of life. For this reason there is no area of human interest - the intellectual, literary, scientific, artistic, or religious - that may not at any time become a battleground of this struggle. Take, for example, the situation of a Soviet architect. Today without doubt he enjoys a certain security; he is not likely to lie awake fearing the dread knock at the door at midnight. Furthermore, he may now see opening before him in the practice of his profession a degree of artistic freedom that his predecessors did not enjoy. But he can never be sure that he will not wake up tomorrow morning and read in the papers that a new "line" has been laid down for architecture, since his profession, like every other, can at any moment be drawn into the struggle for power. He can never know the security enjoyed by those who live under a system where the struggle for political power is fenced off, as it were, from the other concerns of life. When Soviet "politics" invades a field like architecture, it cannot be said to spread beyond its proper boundaries, for it has none. It is precisely this defect in the Soviet regime that in the long run prevents the realization of the ideal of freedom under communism. It is only in the constitutional democracies that the human spirit can be permanently free to unfold itself in as many directions as are opened up for it by its creative urge. Only such governments can achieve diversity without disintegration, for only they know the full meaning of "those wise restraints that make men free." Since the Communist philosophy of history is the central core of its ideology, that philosophy has of necessity permeated every theme I have so far discussed. Briefly stated the Communist philosophy of history is that man does not make history, but is made by it. Though communism denies to man the capacity to shape his own destiny, it does accord to him a remarkable capacity to foresee in great detail just what the future will impose on him. The literature of communism is full of prophecies, tacit and explicit. Probably no human faith ever claimed so confidently that it knew so much about the future. Certainly none ever ran up a greater number of bad guesses. On a rough estimate the Communist record for mistaken prophecies stands at about 100 percent. Among the conclusions about the future that were implicit in the Communist philosophy, or were drawn from it by its prophets, we can name the following:  That communism will first establish itself in countries of the most advanced capitalism; That in such countries society will gradually split itself into two classes, with the rich becoming fewer and richer, the laboring masses sinking steadily to a bare level of existence; That under capitalism colonialism will increase as each capitalistic nation seeks more and more outlets for its surplus production; That in capitalist countries labor unions will inevitably take the lead in bringing about the Communist revolution; That as soon as communism is firmly established steps will be taken toward the elimination of the capitalist market and capitalist political and legal institutions; etc. As with other aspects of communism, this record of bad guesses is no accident. It derives from the basic assumption of Marxism that man has no power to mold his institutions to meet problems as they arise, that he is caught up in a current of history which carries him inevitably toward his predestined goal. A philosophy which embraces this view of man's plight is constitutionally incapable of predicting the steps man will take to shape his own destiny, precisely because it has in advance declared any such steps to be impossible. Communism in this respect is like a man standing on the bank of a rising river and observing what appears to be a log lodged against the opposite shore. Assuming that what he observes is an inert object, he naturally predicts that the log will eventually be carried away by the rising floodwaters. When the log turns out to be a living creature and steps safely out of the water the observer is, of course, profoundly surprised. Communism, it must be confessed, has shown a remarkable capacity to absorb such shocks, for it has survived many of them. In the long run, however, it seems inevitable that the Communist brain will inflict serious damage upon itself by the tortured rationalizations with which it has to explain each successive bad guess. This brings us to the final issue. Why is it that with all its brutalities and absurdities communism still retains an active appeal for the minds and hearts of many intelligent men and women? For we must never forget that this appeal does exist. It is true that in the United States and many other countries the fringe of serious thought represented by active Communist belief has become abraded to the point of near extinction. It is also the fact that many people everywhere adhere to groups dominated by Communist leadership who have only the slightest inkling of communism as a system of ideas. Then again we must remember that in the Communist countries themselves there are many intelligent, loyal, and hard-working citizens, thoroughly acquainted with the Communist philosophy, who view that philosophy with a quiet disdain, not unmixed with a certain sardonic pleasure of the sort that goes with witnessing, from a choice seat, a comedy of errors that is unfortunately also a tragedy Finally we must not confuse every "gain of communism" with a gain of adherents to Communist beliefs. In particular, we should not mistake the acceptance of technical and economic aid from Moscow as a conversion to the Communist faith, though the contacts thus established may, of course, open the way for a propagation of that faith. With all this said, and with surface appearance discounted in every proper way, the tragic fact remains that communism as a faith remains a potent force in the world of ideas today. It is an even more tragic fact that that faith can sometimes appeal not only to opportunists and adventurers, but also to men of dedicated idealism. How does this come about? To answer this question we have to ask another: What are the ingredients that go to make up a successful fighting faith, a faith that will enlist the devotion and fanaticism of its adherents, that will let loose on the world that unaccommodating creature, "the true believer"? I think that such a faith must be made up of at least three ingredients. First, it must lift its adherents above the dread sense of being alone and make them feel themselves members of a brotherhood. Second, it must make its adherents believe that in working for the objectives of their faith they are moving in step with nature, or with the forces of history, or with the divine will. Third, it must be a faith that gives to its adherents a sense of being lifted above the concerns that consume the lives of the nonbelieving. All of these ingredients are furnished in abundance by communism. In the Communist philosophy the first two ingredients are fused into one doubly effective amalgam. To become a Communist is no longer to be alone, but to join in the march of a great, oppressed mass of humanity called the proletariat. This silent, faceless army is being carried inevitably to its goal by the unseen forces of history. There is thus a double identification. History belongs to the proletariat, the proletariat belongs to history. By joining in this great march the Communist not only gains human companions but a sense of responding to the great pull of the universe itself. Now the picture I have just painted is not one that even the most devout Communist can comfortably carry about with him at all times. Indeed, there are probably few Communists who do not, even in their moments of highest faith, sense some of the fictions and contradictions of the dream to which they are committed. The absurdities of the Communist ideology are, however, by no means immediately apparent to the new convert, who is likely to be intrigued rather by the difficulty of understanding them. The old believer sees no reason to point out these absurdities, partly because he does not wish to undermine the faith of the young, and partly because he has become inured to them, has learned to live with them at peace, and does not want to disturb his own adjustment to them. One of the key fictions of the Communist edifice of thought is the belief that there is in modern industrial society an identifiable class of people called the proletariat. That such a class would develop was not a bad guess in 1848 and Marx had other economists with him in making this guess. As usual, history perversely took the wrong turn. And as usual, this has caused communism no particular embarrassment, for it continues - with diminished ardor, to be sure - to talk about the proletariat as if it were actually there. But professing to see things that are not there is often a sign of faith and furnishes, in any event, a bond of union among believers. To many of its American critics, communism has appeared as a kind of nightmare. Like awakened sleepers still recoiling from the shock of their dream, these critics forget that the nightmare is after all shot through and through with absurdities. The result is to lend to the Communist ideology a substance that, in fact, it does not possess. If in moments of doubt the Communist is inclined to feel that his philosophy is made of air and tinsel, he is reassured and brought back into the fold when he recalls that its critics have declared this philosophy to be profoundly and powerfully vicious. Part of the tarnish that an uncompliant history has visited on the Communist prophecies has in recent years been removed by the achievements of Russian technology. It is now possible to identify communism with the land that has the highest school buildings, the hugest outdoor rallies, the most colossal statues and the space satellites that weigh the most tons. It is not difficult to make all this appear as a kind of belated flowering of the promises communism began holding out more than a hundred years ago. It is easy to make men forget that none of the solid accomplishments of modern Russia came about by methods remotely resembling anything anticipated by Marx, Engels, or Lenin. In suggesting the ingredients that go to make up a successful fighting faith, I stated that such a faith must be one "that gives to its adherents a sense of being lifted above the concerns that consume the lives of the nonbelieving." I have purposely left this aspect of the Communist faith to the last for it is here that the truly nightmarish quality of that faith manifests itself. Not that it is any objection to a faith that it enables those sharing it to be indifferent to things that seem important to others. The crucial question is, What is it that men are told not to heed? As to the Communist faith there is no ambiguity on this score. It tells men to forget all the teachings of the ages about government, law, and morality. We are told to cast off the intellectual burden left behind by men like Confucius, Mencius, Plato, Aristotle, St. Thomas, Kant and Bentham. There are no "eternal truths" about society. There is no science of social architecture. Only the simple minded can believe that there are principles guiding the creation of sound legal and political institutions. For the enlightened there is only one rule: Smash the existing "bourgeois" economic and legal order and leave the rest to the "spontaneous class organization of the proletariat." In diplomatic dealings the Russians display great respect for American military and economic power, but consider us hopelessly naive in matters political. We are still concerned with trifles as they feel themselves long since to have left behind - trifles like: How do you help a people to realize self-government who have had no experience with its necessary forms and restraints? How, following the overthrow of a tyranny, do you suggest steps that will prevent an interim dictatorship from hardening into a second tyranny? It is not that the Communists have ideas about sound government that differ from ours. According to strict Communist theory there can be no ideas on such a subject. If a gray market for such ideas has gradually developed in Russia it has not yet reached the point of being ready for the export trade. Russia has engineers able to help the underdeveloped countries build roads and dams and there is no reason to question the competence of these engineers. But whoever heard of Russia sending an expert in political institutions to help a new country design an appropriate form of representative self-government? Not only would such a mission stand in ludicrous incongruity with the present situation of the Communist countries in Europe; it would be a repudiation of the basic premises of the whole Communist philosophy. Even in the economic field, Russia really has nothing to offer the rest of the world but negations. For a long time after the establishment of the Soviet regime it was actively disputed in Russia whether for communism there is any such thing as an economic law. Communistic ideology has had gradually to bend before the plain fact that such laws exist. But Russia has as yet developed no economic institutions that are more than distorted shadows of their capitalist equivalents. Russia may help a new country to develop electric power. It has nothing to say about the social institutions that will determine how that power will be utilized for the good of the whole people. This great vacuum that lies in the heart of communism explains not only why its philosophy is in the long run so destructive of everything human, but why in the short run it can be so successful. Consider, for example, what it can offer to the leader of a successful revolution. A cruel dictatorship has been overthrown. It had to be overthrown by force because it permitted no elections or never counted the vote honestly. Following the successful revolt, there must be an interval during which order is kept by something approaching a dictatorship. Sooner or later, if the revolution is not to belie its democratic professions, some movement must be made toward representative self-government. This is a period of great difficulty. There is no mystery about its problems. They fit into an almost classic pattern known from antiquity. The revolutionary leaders must find some accommodation with what is left of the old regime. Sooner or later the firing squad must be retired. Even when this is done vengeful hatreds continue to endanger the successful operation of parliamentary government. Among the revolutionary party, men who were once united in overthrowing plain injustice become divided on the question what constitutes a just new order. Militant zealots, useful in the barricades, are too rough for civil government and must be curbed. If curbed too severely, they may take up arms against the new government. Etc., etc. What can communism offer the revolutionary leader caught in this ancient and familiar quandary? It can, of course, offer him material aid. But it can offer him something more significant and infinitely more dangerous, a clear conscience in taking the easy course. It can tell him to forget about elections and his promises of democracy and freedom. It can support this advice with an imposing library of pseudoscience clothing despotism with the appearance of intellectual respectability. The internal stability of the present Russian Government lends an additional persuasiveness to this appeal. If Russia can get along without elections, why can't we? Men forget that it is a common characteristic of dictatorships to enjoy internal truces that may extend over decades, only to have the struggle for power renew itself when the problem of a succession arises. This is a pattern written across centuries of man's struggle for forms of government consistent with human dignity. It is said that the struggle for power cannot under modern conditions with modern armies and modern weapons, take the form of a prolonged civil war. That is no doubt true in a developed economy like that of Russia. The shift in power when it comes may involve only a few quick maneuvers within the apparatus of the party, which have their only outward manifestation in purges or banishments that seal the results. But the fact remains that the fate of millions will be determined by processes which take no account of their interests or wishes, in which they are granted no participation, and which they are not even permitted to observe. It must not be forgotten that modern Russia was for an indefinite period prior to 1953 governed by a tyranny. This is admitted in Russia today. To be sure, the term "tyranny" is not used, because according to the Communist philosophy a term like that betokens a naive and outdated view of the significance of governmental forms. The Soviet term is "the cult of personality." According to the official explanation Stalin and his followers in some mysterious way became infected with a mistaken view of Stalin's proper role. According to ancient wisdom this was because Stalin ruled without the check of constitutional forms and without effective popular participation in his government. In the words of Aristotle, written some 23 centuries ago, "This is why we do not permit a man to rule, but the principle of law, because a man rules in his own interest, and becomes a tyrant." It is plain that Stalin at some point became a tyrant. According to Aristotle this was because Russia did not base its government on the principle of law. According to the Communist theory some inexplicable slippage of the gears, some accidental countercurrent of history, led Stalin to embrace incorrect notions about himself. If mankind is to survive at a level of dignity worthy of its great past, we must help the world recapture some sense of the teachings of the great thinkers of former ages. It must come again to see that sound legal and political institutions not only express man's highest ideal of what he may become, but that they are indispensable instruments for enabling him to realize that ideal. It would be comforting to believe that the forces of history are working inevitably toward this realization and that we too are cooperating with the inevitable. We can only hope that this is so. But we can know that the forces of human life, struggling to realize itself on its highest plane, are working with us and that those forces need our help desperately.
Vice President NIXON. Commander Feldman, Madam President, former commanders of the VFW behind me, and vice commanders who escorted us into this hall, members of the VFW, members of the auxiliary and your guests: I want you to know first what a very great privilege it is for my wife, Pat, and me to be here with you again. And I can only say, as I look back over the past 8 years, the many speeches that I have made, the many appearances that I have participated in, none will stand out more in my memory than those with the national encampments of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. [Applause.] I recall the first - 8 years ago - and then as I looked at these commanders, who seemed very young at that time but are a little older now I recalled each of the years that I appeared at their conventions. And unless my count is wrong, I believe that six times in the last 7 years (and this makes the 7 and 8 years) I have been able to be with you. [Applause.] I thank you for the invitations, for the warm receptions that you have always accorded me, and for the invitation to come again. Now, since this is the eighth time that I have appeared before the national convention, I should also point out that it is the last time I will appear as Vice President of the United States and, depending upon what happens this November, it might be the last time as an elected official of this country. [Laughter.] But whatever capacity, may I say that I have enjoyed the opportunities and my only regret as I look over these past conventions is that the schedules have been so filled with distinguished guests, luncheons, with the photographs and other things that have to be planned, that neither Pat or I have had much chance to participate in the fun of the conventions - with the--- and others who, I know, have kept things humming here in Detroit. So, may I congratulate the city of Detroit for what Lou Feldman says is one of the finest conventions you have ever had in the history of the organization. [Applause.] And may I also congratulate Lou (as I have had the privilege and the honor of congratulating each of his predecessors) for making me, as a member of this organization, proud of the job that he has done as our commander in this past year all over the world. [Applause.] I just learned today that George Allen awarded him a Distinguished Service Medal for his work on his last trip abroad and on other trips that he has taken. And may I say to his successor, his successor, incidentally, who will be promoted automatically without having to go through an election, I say as far as his successor is concerned, that I hope that he too, be able to represent the Veterans of Foreign Wars not only in America, but throughout the world, because it is of great assistance to our foreign policy to have the commander of our organization travel as Lou and his predecessors have done, and I hope that you will make the funds available for his successor to travel as he has. [Applause.] Now, in riding in from the airport with Lou, I had the chance to go over some of the program that you have enjoyed up to this time. And I have noticed that, as in previous years, you have concentrated particularly on that subject which I have always found is closest to the hearts of the members of Veterans of Foreign Wars as well as the members of the Auxiliary of this organization. And I speak, of course, of the great cause for which you as members of this great organization have fought. You have fought the wars of this Nation for two purposes: (1) To bring peace to the world; and (2) to bring peace without surrender, to bring peace with freedom and justice and honor for all people all over the world. [Applause.] And I am glad you have had the opportunity of hearing from various people in Government who are working toward that end, whose work you have supported. In my previous appearances before you, I have tried to direct my remarks to that subject which is of such overriding concern to you. And today I do not want to depart from precedent; I want to talk on that subject again. And if you will permit me, I would like to look back a bit over the past 8 years and then look forward and see what our experience in these years teaches us about the policies and programs that we should adopt for the future. Looking over those 8 years we have seen crises for this country for the cause of peace and freedom; we have seen difficulties. But I think also we can be thankful that in those 8 years that we have seen the ending of one war and policies that have kept the United States out of other wars without surrender of principle for the free world. [Applause.] These policies, incidentally, as you well know, have not been the policies of one party, have not been just the policies of an administration; they have been the policies of the American people - Republicans and Democrats alike - backing the President of the United States, and may that always be the case where the freedom and security of the people of the United States is concerned. [Applause.] As we look over those 8 years it is sometimes easy to forget the crises through which we have passed, any one of which under the wrong kind of leadership and with lack of determination on our part might have resulted in a different outcome even in a way. I speak of Suez, of the situation in Quemoy and Matsu, of Indochina, of Lebanon, and others, of which of course you also would have knowledge. And I can only say that we can be thankful today, again, that we stand today as a nation that has survived these years and survived them with peace and with honor. And now if I might turn to the problems of the future. And in turning to the problems of the future, examine our posture of the present. We have been hearing in increasing amounts in recent months great concerns and even doubts expressed about the position of the United States in the world. We have heard that our military strength has put us now in second place; that economically our economy is not as strong as it should be, and that we run the risk of becoming second in this area as well; that scientifically we are falling behind; that our educational system is not as strong as it should be. And there is a tendency sometimes for those who perhaps are not examining the whole record to jump to a conclusion that as far as this country is concerned, because of the weaknesses we have, that possibly we are generally falling and have fallen into a second-rate position in the world - militarily, economically, scientifically and from the standpoint of our education. Now I think it's time to put the record straight, to put the record straight in this respect: First, we must recognize that one of the strengths of a free country is that any person has the right and the responsibility to criticize the policies of his government when he thinks they're wrong. He has the right and the responsibility to point up the weaknesses of our military strength or our economic strength or our scientific and educational establishment wherever he thinks weaknesses exist. But may I say that in pointing up those weaknesses, let us never make the mistake of overlooking the strengths of the United States and pointing out those strengths to ourselves and the world as well. [Applause.] And today we can say categorically and we can say proudly that the United States is first in the world militarily, economically, scientifically, and educationally, and we have the will and the determination to maintain that position in the years ahead. [Applause.] The problem is; How do we maintain that position? And here we look to the future. And in looking to the future it is necessary for us to consider the threat to our position which is presented by those in the Communist world. Because we're in a race today, a race in which we are well ahead in the areas that I have mentioned, but a race in which we have an opponent that is determined to catch up. And all of you know that whenever you're in a race you can never be complacent, you must always examine your deficiencies, and in order to stay ahead you can't stand still, you have to move ahead. And so the question is: How does the United States move ahead? How do we maintain the position that we have, a position we must maintain, not only to assure our own freedom and our own security, but the chances for freedom and security of the peoples throughout the world. And I would lay down these guidelines today based on the experience of the past 8 years, experience which I have had the opportunity to participate in. First of all (and this need not be said to the Veterans of Foreign Wars), but I repeat it for fear that we may sometimes forget that this is essential: If the United States is to give the leadership to the world, diplomatically and ideologically that it needs, if we are to be able to guarantee our peace and our security and the peace and security of others, we must begin with military strength which is second to none any place in the world. [Applause.] And we must have that today and in the future. [Applause.] Now, we can have arguments about that strength, about its level, and we do have arguments - in the Government, as a matter of fact - between our services (and all of them are represented here) as to what the mission should be of each of the services and where the emphasis should be put. I will not participate in that particular discussion at this point as it would not be appropriate. But I will say this: there are certain guidelines with regard to our military strength that we should have in mind. First, that it is essential that that strength be reexamined, reexamined as the Secretary of Defense indicated, not simply on an annual basis but on a regular basis, month by month, having in mind two guidelines which will change our policies if those guidelines indicate they should be changed. First, we must have the intelligence which will tell us what our potential opponents are doing. I do not mean that we change our defense posture every time they change their emphasis. But I do mean, of course, that as we get new information a bout their capabilities, about their aggressiveness, the United States must be prepared to meet that contingency and to meet it efficiently and effectively. And second, in addition to that, we must always take advantage of the new technological developments. We must not be frozen into acquiring and depending upon the weapons of the past to fight the wars of the future, because if we do we will he in a position of inferiority regardless of how many of those weapons we may have. And so in this technological area this means that we're faced sometimes with hard decisions, hard decisions because, as we make new breakthroughs, it means we must move from the old to the new and move imaginatively, boldly, so that we stay ahead of the new as well as in the old until the old no longer has any relationship to our defense posture. So these two guidelines I think we could generally agree upon. A second point that I would make is this. In determining what level of military strength we need, we must look at it from two standpoints: (1) The strength in fact that we need, and as far as that strength in fact or strength in being is concerned, it means that the United States and its allies must have enough power that regardless of what a potential enemy has, if he should launch a surprise attack that we would have enough left that we could knock out his war-making capabilities. This must always be our level of strength. Not only must that be the case with regard to our strength in fact but we must go a step further. We must have that strength and our potential enemy as well as our friends in the world must know we have that strength, because if war comes or threats of war or the use of threats of power at the conference table, it will come not only because we may be weaker in fact, but it might come because we might be considered weaker because the story with regard to our strength was not adequately known. And so America's strength must be stronger in fact and stronger in the minds of those with whom we will be bargaining at the conference table. And the final thing I would say is this. What must America do to maintain this strength, to what ends will we go? And the answer is that the security of the United States must come before all other considerations. [Applause.] At the present time we do not see any necessity of raising our taxes in order to maintain that strength, but let us resolve that should the time ever come when because of the necessity of maintaining our strength we might have to tax ourselves more to do so, we shall put security second, security first and the tax situation second. This is the only way to maintain the strength of the United States at an adequate level. [Applause.] And now if I could turn to a corollary of the strength that we should have militarily. Diplomacy is going to have a great deal to say as to whether we are able to keep the peace without surrender in the years ahead. What should we do at the diplomatic table? What should the posture of our Secretary of State, our President, the other representatives of America, be as they sit down across from the conference table with the representative of the Kremlin and others in the free world or in the Communist world. And I think that that posture can best be summarized - based again on the experience of these past years - with two words: We must always be firm without being belligerent, firmness without belligerency. Let me spell out the two words, if I might, just briefly. By "firmness" I mean that the United States, our President, our Secretary of State, our other officials, must always be ready and willing to negotiate the outstanding differences with the leaders of the Communist world any time any place that there appears to be a reasonable possibility that some success could come from those negotiations. But in entering those negotiations we must enter them with a resolve that we will stand not only for our own freedom but for the right of the people of Berlin, for any other people in the world to be free also, and stand firmly in that right. [Applause.] Now, I think the recent summit conference gives us some more guidance on this particular point. We have there, I think, an example on the part of the President of firmness without belligerence. It was a difficult situation for a President of the United States to go to a conference and then to be subjected to insult - never perhaps equaled in the relation between nations at a conference table in the history of the world. What did he do? One, he did not answer in kind; he maintained his dignity; but, two, he also refused Mr. Khrushchev's request that he either apologize or his request that he punish those who were responsible for the U-2 flights which you have read so much about. Now the President has been criticized on two counts on the summit conference. There are some who suggest that he might have considered at least apologizing or expressing his regrets for these flights for a good reason, a reason that by doing so he might have saved the conference and that Mr. Khrushchev then might have sat down and negotiated on Berlin and other matters. And on the other side of the coin there are people who say, no, he shouldn't have done that, but he made a mistake in not answering back and in telling this fellow off when he was engaging in such a terrific diatribe against the President of the United States and the Office which he represents. I believe both sets of critics are wrong. First, on the basis of whether the President could have, or might have apologized regrets, the answer is a very simple one: The President of the United States must not and never should apologize or express regrets for trying to protect the security of this country against surprise attack. [Applause.] And there's a corollary to that, the United States must always be strong enough that no President of the United States ever is forced to apologize or express regrets in any conference in which we participate. [Applause.] But there's another reason why this kind of approach I think is wrong. It shows a great lack of understanding with regard to the character of Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues. Apologizing, expressing regrets to him, would have accomplished nothing. He came to this conference determined to break it up and he was intent upon making the President crawl to him, and if that had happened it would not have satisfied, it would only have whetted his appetite. And now to the second point: Should the President have answered in kind? And there's an answer to that. You know, it's very easy, when you get into an argument with one of those who stands against everything we believe and hold dear, it's very easy to be tempted to respond in kind. But no President of the United States, no representative of this country, can give in to such personal temptation. Because the danger is that you heat up the international atmosphere by a war of words, heat it up to the point that a nuclear catastrophe can destroy civilization as we know it. And so in this instance let us ever remember that when you are confident of your strength, when you have faith in your cause, you do not have to resort to name calling, you do not have to respond to insults in kind. The United States and its representatives can be dignified, we can be firm, but we do not have to be belligerent, and that is the way to lead the free world in these difficult years ahead without involving us in war or surrender on either side. [Applause.] And now, having mentioned our military strength, the necessity for a firm diplomacy, the necessity for attending conferences and working for peace through negotiation wherever the opportunity presents itself, there might be a tendency for us to say, well, that's it, if we do these things we can keep the peace and we can have our freedom. But we must never make that mistake. These things are terrifically important as I've already indicated, but we must remember that we can do these things: we can be the strongest military nation in the world, we can have a strong economy, we can be firm without being belligerent at the conference table, and still lose the battle for freedom in the world without a shot ever being fired. And I speak now of an area that has already been touched upon by previous speakers and I do it for emphasis, the great nonmilitary conflict that is going on throughout the world today. Oh, you read it in your papers every time you pick them up. In Asia, in Africa, in South America, all over the world, where a billion people live, so-called underdeveloped or newly developing countries - a conflict is going on for the allegiance of men and women. It's a conflict which is difficult from our standpoint; it is one that I am sure many Americans sometimes are tempted to brush off by saying: Let's draw within our own shell, let's build our own strength and be tough at the conference table and let the rest of the world go hang, because when you see what happens in Laos - after all the money we've spent there - when you see the troubles in the Congo, when you read of what's happening in Cuba, there is a temptation to engage in the kind of thinking that I have just described. But let us never forget that if America fails its responsibility to the world that the world will be lost and we will be lost with it, because the Communists are working. They have launched a war here without guns, but a war more deadly than that, a war of words, a political war, an economic war, a subversive war, which is aimed at conquering those nations just as surely as they would be conquered if they were to roll through them with the Red army. And we cannot let this happen. And how do we avoid its happening? Well, what we have to do here is recognize the ingredients of that struggle and then develop our programs to deal with those ingredients. And so first we look at the people in those countries. What do they want? My wife and I have visited most of those countries; we have talked to their people; we have seen the condition under which they live. You know, one thing that is the same about all of them and they're different in most other respects - religion, clothing, everything else - the thing that is the same about them is that they're determined to have a better way of life, because they live in terrible poverty for the most part and, under those circumstances, they aren't going to be satisfied with a program which says: Don't take communism because it brings progress but at the cost of freedom. If the choice that these people have is progress at the cost of freedom (which the Communists offer) and no progress staying where they are, they're inevitably going to have to take the Communist offer. And it's our responsibility not to leave them in that position, to show them that there is an alternative, an alternative which the American history shows and illustrates better than anything in the world: that a newly developing country, a new country, wanting progress, can get it, but that they can get it and keep their freedom at the same time. This is America's lesson to the world and it is one that we must reiterate over and over again - not just by the words that George Allen in the Information Service puts out - that is essential - but by our deeds. Because, remember, a nation is what its deeds are. And this brings me, then to the programs with which we, I think, must deal. Sometimes we might be tempted to say: Why don't we just spend more billions of dollars helping these people get economic progress? The spending of money is important in some areas, but you could increase the spending a hundredfold, and if you did that alone we would still lose. Because money without the political and economic institution, the trained technicians to run an economy in the Government, will go right down a rathole. And so we must combine our economic program, which we need, with technical and political and other training programs on a scale such as we have never had before. That's point one. And a second point - turning to Cuba. Here I hear many people suggest: When are we going to get tough with Castro? Why don't we invoke the Monroe Doctrine? Let's get one thing straight. As the President indicated in his press conference in Washington this morning, there's no question about our attitude toward Cuba, our determination that there will not be set up a foreign-controlled Communist dictatorship in Cuba [applause] but what we must remember too is that the United States has the power - and Mr. Castro knows this - to throw him out of office any day that we would choose, but getting rid of Castro is not the answer alone. We have to remember what brought Castro and then we have to give a constructive alternative to the people not only of Cuba, but to the people of all the Latin American countries, where they can see that there is a way to a better life in those countries without turning to Communist dictatorship to get it. This is what we have to prove to them. [Applause.] And so that is why I say the Congress of the United States, the Senate of the United States, was certainly acting with great statesmanship in approving the President's program for expanded economic assistance in these areas, and that is why I say that in this area - as well as others in the world - we must remember that it isn't enough just to be against communism, we have to offer a constructive alternative to it. And now, if I could turn to not only programs but to the goal that America must set for herself in this critical period. And that goal must be an affirmative one. It isn't enough in dealing with the threat of communism to say that our programs are designed to stop communism, to defend free nations against communism, to contain communism; these things are necessary but they're not enough. Because the Communist goal is not to hold the line for communism; it's the victory of communism, the imposing of communism on all the world. And you can't answer a strategy of victory with simply a strategy of defense. What you have to have to answer a strategy of victory for communism is a strategy and a program of victory for freedom throughout the world. [Applause.] And as we speak of that strategy we must recognize that to implement it, it requires a determination and the stamina on our part, which will take the rough seas with the calm, which will recognize that we're not always going to succeed, but which will never be deterred by the fact that the Communists may mount an offensive here, there, or somewhere else in the world. Two examples to prove the point. The riots in Japan, the riots in Caracas when we were there 2 years ago. People suggest, well, when these riots occur this means that the President and the Vice President and the Secretary of State shouldn't travel to these countries. And the answer is that that's just exactly what the Communists want us to do, to cut off our communications with the millions of people in Japan and Latin America who are for us because of the actions of a Communist minority who are against us. We must not play into their hands. When they do, in other words, engage in these activities, we must push through, push through with our policy without being deterred. Because remember: whatever we may say about the evils of communism, the leaders are dedicated, they are determined, they're willing to wait, and may the American people and the American Government have the same determination and the same stamina as they have. We've got to outlast the enemies of freedom in this struggle. [Applause.] And then there is one other ingredient which is essential for victory and that is a matter of faith. Too often we put our primary reliance solely on our military strength, our diplomatic policy, the productivity of our factories. And America can be very thankful that we are militarily strong and diplomatically firm and productive from the standpoint of our economy. But let us never forget that this is not all that we offer the world and it isn't the most important facet of our ideals in the world. Because America stands for more than military strength and economic strength (the Communists can offer that); we stand for moral and spiritual ideals and values that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago in the American Revolution and that still lives in the hearts of our people and in the hopes of people throughout the world today. [Applause.] And so to my comrades in the Veterans of Foreign Wars, may I say to you today that as I look into the future I do not look at it with fear as to the outcome of this struggle - and neither should you. I look into the future with faith. I do not consider this (as some do) a terrible time in which to live. We have problems, but it is the most exciting time - perhaps the best time - that men and women of courage and conviction and faith could ever have chosen to live, and I want to tell you why. Men and women have dreamed from the beginning of civilization of the time when there would be enough in the world from the standpoint of goods, of food and clothing, to go around. They have dreamed of that day - Utopia it is called - and some have worked for that day - but until our generation we could never have reached the goal had we been able to implement the policies which we had adopted. And today for the first time in the history of man, because we have made great breakthroughs in science, because we have made great breakthroughs in productivity and Detroit is one of the finest examples in that respect, because of all these things men and women today can build a world of peace, of freedom, and of real progress and plenty for all. We can wage a winning war. We can wage it against poverty, misery, and disease all over the world. And so I call upon you, those of you who fought the wars of this country, to save the freedom of America, to save our security, who fought for the freedom of others. I say: Join in this struggle, join in it recognizing that it is more difficult, more complex, but that the rewards can be even greater than in all the wars we have fought in past history. And let the American people not fall their Government so that their Government will not fail the cause which we are leading in the world today. Because America must lead the world. We have this responsibility, whether some would like us to have it or not. And in order to lead it we need not only Government officials who know this problem, but millions of Americans led by people like yourselves who recognize the danger that we face, who know the ideals in which we believe, and who are willing to work for those ideals for the victory which we seek. And I can say to you as I conclude, that having traveled the length and breadth of this land, having seen 50 nations abroad, I could not have greater faith as to the outcome of this struggle because we are on the right side, because the peoples of the world - millions of them on both sides of the Iron Curtain - want peace with freedom (which we offer) - but primarily because of men and women like yourselves dedicated to the cause of freedom with faith in God, faith in our country, and faith in yourselves. With such backing the Government of the United States cannot and will not fail the cause of freedom and justice for the world. Thank you. [Applause.]
QUESTION. At a news conference this morning the President was asked about the role you had played over the past 7½ years in making policy. He said you had participated in top level discussions but you haven't made policy decisions. Do you have any comment on this? Vice President NIXON. Yes. The President, I think, has very properly stated the role not only of the Vice President, but of the other members of his official family and his Cabinet. The President always must consult, and does consult, with his top advisers in all fields. But when it comes to the power of decision only the President can and should make decisions. That certainly is my idea of the function of the President and, while he can delegate to various members of his official family the power of carrying out and implementing decisions, the major decisions themselves must be made by the President. QUESTION. (Newsman says something which is unintelligible and then says, "CBS News" - at which everybody roars with laughter.) Vice President NIXON. I might say, incidentally, that I had somewhat the same embarrassment at the convention after I finished my acceptance speech. Somebody came down and put a couple of head phones on me and said, "Will you please talk to Cronkite?" And I proceeded to do so and I found that I was talking to the NBC microphone - instead of to CBS. [Laughter.] QUESTION. I might add, Mr. Vice President, that it went on both networks. Vice President NIXON. Both networks. Well, that's fair enough. Go right ahead. QUESTION. May I make reference to one point you made in your speech. You said that at any time the United States so desired it could be instrumental in toppling the Castro government. Can you expand on that? Vice President NIXON. Yes. What I meant to say is this. Suggestions have been made from very well intentioned quarters to the effect that the United States should use what they call the big stick on Cuba - going back to the days of Theodore Roosevelt. Now, if the United States wanted to use its full military and economic power, it could topple Mr. Castro. My point was that is simply out of the question. It's out of the question not only for the reason that I mentioned in my speech - that getting rid of Castro isn't going to solve the problem of Communist appeal in Latin America as well as in Cuba - but also it is out of the question because the use of military power for the purpose of effecting a change in government, unless there is a joint support, joint support from the hall of the international community, either the United Nations or, in the other case, the OAS, is out of the question. QUESTION. How do you feel about the reaction to the Senator (?) - last night - of the medical care, medical care bill? Are you satisfied with that bill? [NOTE.- Questions from the floor at this press conference are not too clear.] Vice President NIXON. I certainly am not. I think that bill, as I have indicated previously, is an improvement over the bill passed by the House, and it will provide to the States an opportunity to take care of the medically indigent, so-called. But it does not provide adequately for what I would term the middle class (I don't like to use the word "class"), but I mean the middle group among our older citizens, who sometimes are those most in need and those who have least opportunity to take care of their medical needs. For that group I feel that the proposal that the administration backed, a proposal which was incorporated in its major features in the Javits amendment which I supported, is the best approach. Now, people disagree with that. Senator Kennedy and Senator Johnson believe that the social security route, which would compel all people - whether they wanted health insurance or not - to, in effect, have it through subscribing to social security, is the best one to provide medical care or people over 65. I believe that the most effective method is through a program which will provide a choice whereby people who want to have the protection for catastrophic illnesses or, for that matter, for noncatastrophic illnesses, if they so desire, can have it, but where they are not forced to have it if they do not desire, and where they can choose getting that protection through government or through private plans, which they might choose, with some government assistance. And I would agree with Senator Kennedy, incidentally, to this extent: he indicated that this would be an issue in the campaign, I think it will be an issue in the campaign, and the question will not be one of ends, because both of us believe that there should he protection for our older citizens for medical care. The question will be one of means. He is for a compulsory program; I am for a voluntary program. QUESTION. Are you satisfied with the record of the bobtail session of Congress - if not, can you use your influence with Republicans to speed it up? Vice President NIXON. All the influence I could use with Republicans would mean very little for the very reason that the Democrats have twice as many members as do Republicans. And I would say that the record to date is one that, of course, I'm sure is not satisfactory either to the Democratic leadership or to the President and the Republican leadership. I would suggest that perhaps the reason for that failure is twofold: first, having a session between the convention and the election, as I predicted at the time this session was called, is a hazardous business. There has never been a time in history when such a session produced much, and I go back to 1948 when a similar thing happened with a Republican control of Congress. I am inclined to think that in addition to that reason there is a second reason, and that is that despite the fact that the Democrats do control approximately twothirds of the Senate and almost two-thirds of the House, that they do not have within the Democratic Party itself support of the more extreme proposals of the Democratic platform. And the vote on health insurance was an indication that the Democratic candidates - even when Senator Kennedy and Senator Johnson happened to agree and join on something - cannot deliver the votes for the more extreme proposals adopted in that platform. QUESTION. You talked this morning about considering the threat (?) - you said we are in a race with our opponents and in order to maintain our position we must move ahead. How do we stand in that race at the moment? Vice President NIXON. Well, there are various aspects of the race. There is, of course, the military aspect which has been discussed a great deal. On that score we're ahead now, overall, and I believe we have the capability and the intention and the will to stay there. On the economic side, which has been the subject of a great deal of discussion, the problem is not who is ahead - everybody agrees the United States is ahead - our gross national product is approximately two and a quarter times as great as that of the Soviet Union. The question is, which has been raised, is that the Soviet economy is growing at a faster rate than ours, the claim is made at least, and that they will overtake us. I do not believe that they will overtake us for a variety of reasons which I will not go into now, but which, incidentally, I covered at some length when I spoke to the Economic Club earlier. In my opinion, in the economic area, the absolute gap between our economies which presently exists, can and will be maintained by the United States in the next 10 years, the next 20 years, of the foreseeable future. To maintain it, however, we have to get the most out of our economy, and the way we get the most out of our economy is not through relying upon government action, greater government spending, for example, to do that, but through increasing opportunities and incentives for expansion of the private sector of the economy. There are some areas where government can be effective, but those areas where it can be most effective in assuring economic growth are in the area of tax reform, credit policies, and others which will be of assistance in encouraging and stimulating the private sector. So, with the right kind of government policies, which will encourage the private sector of the economy, and with both business and labor recognizing that we're in a race, working for increased productivity and both, incidentally, must do so - this isn't just a problem of labor's being guilty of - as some would say, of featherbedding - business also has its inefficiencies - but business and labor acting on an efficient basis, the U.S. economy will maintain the absolute gap that we presently have over the Soviet Union. QUESTION. Do you stand behind and support the intercession of your aid, Mr. Shepley, in the financing of the African exchange program? Vice President NIXON. I can only say that I would hope that the Kennedy Foundation and the State Department, and I would hope other foundations as well, would support not only this program but other programs as well. As most of you gentlemen who cover the Washington scene realize, I have been speaking publicly and privately for increased exchange, not only for Africa, but for all of the so-called underdeveloped and newly developing countries. As I implied in my speech today, simply pouring money into these countries without having the political and economic institutions and the trained personnel who can use that money effectively, is putting it right down a rathole. And the State Department files, I can assure you, are full of letters and requests from me over the last 7 years - ever since my first trip to Asia - and so far as Africa is concerned, over the past 3 years, since my trip to Africa - backing requests of various Organizations to increase the number of students and others coming to the United States from the African area. To me, as I look at Africa today, and particularly the situation in the Congo, the most critical long-range problem is not one of adequate funds for development. We need that. It isn't one of military strength, but it is one of the training of personnel at all levels, in Government, in business, and in the civil service generally, so that these economies can be developed in the course of freedom rather than having to turn to a dictatorial method. QUESTION. Will you please state your position on the loyalty oaths and Federal grants-in-aid (?); and, secondly . . .(Note: second part of question not clear.) Vice President NIXON. As far as the loyalty oath is concerned, I have supported the position that has now been adopted by the Congress. I believe that, as I put it, we should have an affirmative loyalty oath, an affirmation, with regard to the student's belief and support in the institutions of the United States, but I do not believe that the student should be required to take a negative oath in which he says, "I do not believe in this or that or the other thing." And that, incidentally, has been the position that has now been adopted, and I think that most institutions will agree is a reasonable one. May I say in that connection, some say, "Why any oath at all?" And the answer is, of course, that this is a Defense Education Act, and where it is a Defense Education Act the least that you can require is that those who are receiving subsidies from the Government - presumably for the purpose of going and doing work related to defense, whether science or some other areas - the least that you can require is the affirmative oath of loyalty. Regarding the second matter that you raised, would you repeat the question? I don't think I'm quite familiar with the subject. QUESTION. (Still not clear.) Vice President NIXON. Oh, I see. I knew it wasn't compulsory now. It isn't compulsory now as I understand. QUESTION. (Not clear.) Vice President NIXON. I understand; I understand. I am not familiar enough with the rules to comment perhaps intelligently on that. Generally speaking, I believe - I would say that where the national security requires it, I have no doubt at all about supporting compulsory ROTC or just as we have a compulsory draft. The question here would be whether the national security required that. I just want to make it clear that the national security is what should govern us in this instance. QUESTION. (Asks about Senator Hugh Scott's criticism of the Kennedy Foundation's agreement to supply transportation funds in connection with African exchange students.) Vice President NIXON. I will not comment on Senator Scott's charges since I have not had the opportunity to read them in detail. I will only make the general statement that I welcome foundations - whether it's the Kennedy Foundation or the Rockefeller Foundation, I might say, or any other foundation - getting into this field of exchange. And if it is a new field for the Kennedy Foundation, I hope they stay in it. That's all I can say, because there is no area where the national interest can be served better than in this field. And may I say that on the Government side, while we of course like to see foundations take as much of this burden as possible, there's enough room for everybody. We need the Government assistance as well. The number of students that come to the United States from Africa, for example, is pitifully small today, pitifully small, compared to the numbers that go to the Soviet Union. And we must do a better job than we're doing, and I will go further and say - and, incidentally, I have discussed this with the President and he shares these views - to say that one of the areas where I think we need a sharp step up and a very sharp stepup in our Government activity is in the field of exchange. Not only a stepup in the number of students and leaders that we bring to the United States and the number of technical assistants that we send abroad, also we need better coordination of this complex of agencies that deal with this subject. I'll have something to say of that nature on a major score in the course of the campaign. QUESTION. (Not clear). Vice President NIXON. The Suez problem, as I have written to several who have questioned me about it (and I think my letters have been published) is one that is high on the priority list of the unsolved problems, and the fact that it is unsolved means that we recognize its existence and we believe that we have got to develop effective means to solve it. There's no question here, may I say, and I'm happy to say this (it's not a political problem it shouldn't be), there's no question but that the leaders and members of both parties, the administration and the administration's critics, support the flow of free transit of the Suez Canal and of other international waterworks. The problem is how do you bring it about? We don't want to engage in acts that might have exactly the opposite effect that we would desire. So we are working through the State Department, we're working through the United Nations, and we will continue to work through every diplomatic means available at our disposal to effect a solution of this problem. I would like to say that I have some panacea to solve it; I do not have. I will discuss it during the course of the campaign in greater detail. QUESTION. When are you coming back to Michigan on a political tour (?) ? Vice President NIXON. I can probably answer that question best by saying that I will be back to Michigan more than once. Michigan, I consider to be one of the major battleground States - not only because it has a high electoral vote, but because traditionally it has been a swing State as far as voting for Republican and Democratic candidates. And also another reason that I want to come back is that I am interested not only in electing the national ticket, but I of course am interested in building our party at the State and local level, and we have here two fine candidates, apart from our congressional candidates (all of whom I will support), two fine candidates, one for the Governor and one for the senatorship, with whom I look forward to campaigning. So I haven't got the dates at this time. I will say this: my present plans are to return to Michigan at least two more times and those will be political trips in spades (?). QUESTION. (Asks if the Vice President favors Congress adjourning now.) Vice President NIXON. For me to comment on that question would really be, I would say, rather unproductive. Obviously, there are only 34 Members of the Senate and 155 Members of the House - for me to say that Congress should adjourn, if that's what I wanted, would probably mean that Congress would stay in. So I think perhaps we have to leave that decision to those who have the majority and have the power. I can only say this: I would hope that the Congress would not adjourn without at least trying to make progress on some of the other proposals which the President laid before them. Certainly the action on the health bill indicated this, though: that this Congress is not going to accept the more extreme proposal included in the Democratic platform. And I think what this Congress has done - even with its huge Democratic majorities - it has indicated that there is great doubt that those proposals would be enacted in the next Congress in the event that the Democrats should prevail. QUESTION. Some time ago you were working for a compromise aid-to-education bill in Congress. Are you still hopeful - still working to get one out? Vice President NIXON. I am hopeful and I am still working. The answer is "Yes" to both questions. For those who have not perhaps had the opportunity to keep up with the latest developments, it presently is in the Rules Committee of the House. The problem is that the Republicans in the Rules Committee are for the administration bill (which I support), whereas the bill that is supported by the Democratic leadership is one that the President could not accept and would veto. Now, it seems to me that under those circumstances that the Democratic leadership, if they really want an education bill, should agree to let the Rules Committee clear one that the President can sign. If they will do that, the Republican members of the Rules Committee will send it out, in my opinion. If they don't, I don't think we can expect the Republican members of the Rules Committee to vote a bill out to the floor solely for the purpose of creating an issue rather than providing a partial solution to the school construction problem. QUESTION. (Not clear.) Vice President NIXON. I should have said "conference"; I should have said "conference" * * * QUESTION. (Not clear.) Vice President NIXON. It certainly can. I went into that in great detail with Congressman Halleck and under the circumstances, if the Rules Committee can get assurances (and it has on previous occasions) from the conferees before the Rules Committee clears a bill for conference; in fact, this is not new, it has happened on labor bills on previous occasions and on others that I could name. And you corrected me properly - it is going to the conference, but the Rules Committee wants from the conference, at least the Republicans of the Rules Committee, an assurance that the conferees will clear a bill that the President would be able to sign. QUESTION. On the matter of the student-exchange program again. Is there any comment that you are willing to make on the specific matter of your aid's intercession in this specific financing program? Did he act under your instruction? Does this action have your support? Vice President NIXON. My answer is that I have asked all of the members of my staff to support any of these proposals for increased student exchange, and I think certainly if my aid did do so, my only regret was that he was not successful until a very late point. QUESTION. (Not clear.) Vice President NIXON. In this field, as you probably are aware, we had an original administration proposal which was not accepted by the Congress, and then a majority proposal which was sent to the President and vetoed. After that, the administration has sent a new proposal to the Congress which increased the amount and which was at least intended to be a compromise between the two positions. I certainly support the new proposal, but in addition to that, I feel that I have the responsibility during the course of the campaign to examine all the proposals and to present my own independent suggestions in this area. I believe this is a very important area, I have been consulting with various Congressmen and Senators representing the districts involved, and I will have a major statement in the course of the campaign on this matter. At the present time I support the new administration proposal.
Vice President NIXON. I want to say first how very moved my wife, Pat, and I are at this wonderful reception we have had this afternoon here in Atlanta. When we arrived at the airport, the mayor told us as we were driving in that we were going to see really somethin' when we got downtown. But, believe me, it exceeded all our expectations - and we thank you for making this such a memorable occasion. [Applause.] And I can say, incidentally, that after hearing the mayor speak, his eloquence, his sincerity, after having seen the tremendous progress that has taken place in this city since my wife and I last visited it in 1942, I was telling the mayor it was the day after the big hotel fire there, I can say that after hearing him and seeing him and seeing that progress, I can understand why he has held the job of mayor longer than any mayor of a major city of America and why he's respected by Democrats and Republicans alike in this city and in the Nation. [Applause.] And I congratulate him and I congratulate the people of this city for the magnificent progress which has been yours in these years. I understand, as a matter of fact, that in the time since President Eisenhower appeared here in 1952 there are nine major new buildings, skyscrapers, that have been under construction in this city. It's an indication of the progress, not only of Atlanta, but of also of this State and of the South, and certainly you are leading the way, and for that you deserve congratulations and the appreciation of Americans. May I say, too, it is indeed a very gratifying and moving occasion, not only to see such a splendid crowd but also to be introduced by a man who is a member of the other party, a man who has been a distinguished leader of that party, who got a majority of the votes in this State, and then to have him say what he did. I want to thank Jimmy Carmichael for his very, shall I say "unexpected" statement; it wasn't in the script, I know, because I'd seen the script before, and I thank him for what he said. [Applause.] If I could be permitted just a couple of personal reminiscences before I speak to you on some of the issues confronting our Nation and the world today, I have gained a great respect for people of this State for a reason that Stan Myerson, who also attended Duke University Law School as I did, will well understand. I entered that law school in 1934. It was a highly competitive class that year, lots of Phi Beta Kappas strung through the class (I wasn't one of them), and I remember that the man who graduated first in that class (and, incidentally, he was my roommate) was a man who had graduated first from Emory University in Georgia and who now is a real success; he's the vice president of the Ethyl Corp. in New York - making a lot more money than I am! [Applause.] And since I roomed with Bill Perdue for 3 years at Duke University Law School, I learned much of the tradition, the culture, and the intelligence of the people of this State; and so I know you better than you might think that I would. And then I recall, too, other occasions when we have been here - your magnificent beaches at Sea island, a very brief visit to the other side of the State out around Albany, and the occasion that I spoke of in 1942. I remember, too, occasions when we saw lots of Georgians in the Duke University Stadium. As you know, Georgia Tech and Duke have always been great rivals, and sometimes in those 3 years Duke won, sometimes Georgia Tech won (you remember Bill Alexander and Wallace Wade were great rivals as coaches), but I'll say this - and every Duke man will agree - that a Georgia Tech team was never uninteresting, it was never dull. And I can say the people of Georgia are never dull - given this reception we've had today. We thank you for that. [Applause.] And so, you can gather from what I have said that I like this State, I respect its people, and I am certainly most happy that one of the first occasions of a campaign visit should occur under such circumstances, under such friendly surroundings. And having spoken of this State in this way and having heard the mayor and Mr. Carmichael speak as they have, I think I should tell you why I'm here. Before I came down here on this trip there are those who said: "Why are you going to Alabama? Why are you going to Georgia?" They said: "After all, Dwight Eisenhower, who was the most popular man ever to be President or run for President in this century [applause] he won by 9 million votes in 1956, if he couldn't carry Georgia, why should any Republican candidate for the Presidency ever bother coming here?" And so I did a little checking of history and you know what I found? In the last quarter of a century there hasn't been a Democratic candidate for President that has bothered to campaign in the State of Georgia. [Applause.] In fact, mayor, Mr. Carmichael, I'm proud to say that the only presidential candidate to campaign in Georgia in that quarter of a century was a Republican candidate, Dwight Eisenhower, in 1952! [Applause.] And I bring to you his greetings and his best wishes, and he recalls the magnificent welcome he had on that occasion. And I want to say to you here today, as I said a little earlier over in Birmingham, Ala., that I don't think that's a good thing, a good situation. I don't think that it's good for the people of Georgia, and more than that, I didn't think it's good for America to have a situation exist where the candidates for the Presidency don't feel it's necessary to campaign in a particular State. What I believe is this: I think it's time for a change. I think it's time for the Democratic candidates for the Presidency to quit taking Georgia and the South for granted. [Applause.] And just so I can show you there's no partisanship intended there, I think it's time for the Republican candidates to quit conceding the South to the Democratic candidates and to come down here too. [Applause.] Because the people of this State, the people of all of our country, should have a choice, and should exercise the right to make a choice in selecting the man who is going to lead this Nation and the free world in the next 4 years. And that is why, may I say, that I announced in my acceptance speech that I intended to do something that hasn't been done for many, many years in this country as a presidential candidate: I intend to visit every one of the 50 States and I hope that in the years to come the Democratic and the Republican candidates for the Presidency will do likewise - that they carry their campaigns and let the people of all the States get a chance to hear the candidates and make up their minds on the great issues confronting the Nation. [Applause.] And now, may I tell you something about those issues? May I tell you how I feel you should consider them in this crucial year 1960? If you are to make a choice, a choice in the best interests of the Nation and of Georgia and of yourselves, it must not be as has been indicated by the mayor and by Jimmy Carmichael a "blind" choice, it must be an intelligent choice. Don't make that choice on the basis of the age of the candidates, on the basis of their religion, on the basis of their personality; don't make that choice on the basis of the party labels they wear, but make it on where they stand on the great issues, and if they stand closer to you -regardless of the party label - vote for the man who agrees with you more than the other man. This is the way to make the choice. [Applause.] And that is why today I present the case for our ticket to you, not on the basis of blind partisanship, not on the basis that you should vote Republican because you are a Republican if you are, but I present it on this basis and on this basis only: Forget your partisan affiliation for a few moments; think of the Nation, think of the issues uppermost in your mind, and then decide which of the candidates, which of the tickets, will best serve the Nation in the interests you deeply believe in. Now in speaking of that choice, I want to say right at the outset that I recognize that there are those who feel they don't really have a choice between the two parties in this election campaign. I see some signs over here that might indicate that, and I must say that I received a few letters - quite a few, as a matter of fact - some of my good friends in the South saying after our convention: "Well, a plague on both your houses. We don't see any difference between what the Democrats did in Los Angeles and what the Republicans did in Chicago." I want to face up to that issue very honestly, very directly with you. Those who would say that, of course, were speaking of only one issue, the civil rights issue. It is a difficult issue. I went to school in the South; I know that issue. My convictions are well known to you: I have spoken of them on many occasions - last week in Greensboro I reiterated those beliefs. But may I say to you that as we consider that issue that I recognize these things also to be true as you do; I recognize that as far as this issue is concerned it is not just a southern issue, it's a problem for the North and for the West and for the East as well. I recognize that this problem must be solved not just on the basis of one part of the country pointing the finger at another, but it must be solved on each American and each part of the country - recognizing the problem in his own backyard before he talks about the problem in the other backyard as well. [Applause.] And I want to say that I congratulate those, including the mayor of this city, who had been dealing with this difficult issue and making progress on it, and I would trust that the next President - be he a Democrat or Republican - will be able to provide leadership which will mean progress in this field, mean progress and eventual solution of one of the most difficult issues confronting the American people today. But when you consider this issue, and assuming that many of you will find yourselves in disagreement with both party platforms, may I say that you also consider some other issues as well. And may, I turn now to what I believe is the overriding issue confronting us in this election campaign. You know what it is. Look at those boys sitting there around that pool. We want those boys to grow up in a world of peace without surrender. This is the great issue of our time. [Applause.] Because we can have the best social security program and the best health program and the best job that anybody can possibly imagine and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. And so I say to you that as you consider how you will vote next November, uppermost in your minds should be this: Which of the two candidates, which of the two tickets, can best provide the leadership which will keep the peace for America without surrender in the years ahead. And I say to you today (and I'm a bit prejudiced, I admit), that I believe that our ticket offers the best record, the most experience, the best program, the best leadership in this field. [Applause.] As far as the record is concerned, I can sum it up in a word. The man that spoke here in Atlanta 8 years ago got the United States out of one war, he's kept us out of other wars, and we have peace without surrender today and the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for that. [Applause.] As far as our leadership is concerned and our experience, it would of course be presumptuous for me to compare my qualifications with those of my opponent, but I can say something about my vice presidential running mate. I say to you today that there is no man in my opinion in the world who has had more experience and who has shown more ability to deal with the Communist leaders across the conference table than the man that I trust will be the next Vice President, Henry Cabot Lodge, our representative at the U.N. [Applause.] And I can assure all of you that if we have the opportunity, you will have a team, a partnership, working day and night in the interests of peace without surrender for America and the world. [Applause.] Now, in gaining that peace, there are some things we must understand. First, we must keep America strong militarily, and that means that the military strength of this country must come before all other considerations. I'd like to come before an audience like this and say: I'm going to cut your taxes, I'm going to give you this and that and the other thing. But I say that our lives come before tax cuts and we must have military security and strength above everything else. [Applause.] I would also like to say that the road is easy - to keep peace without surrender - but it is not. In addition to strength we need diplomatic policies that are firm without being belligerent. And I think the best way I can describe such policies is to refer to the conduct of the President at the summit conference. You remember Mr. Khrushchev, insisting our President as no chief of state had ever been insulted at a conference in the world's history before, and you remember the President - not responding in kind. And after that conference there was disagreement about the President's conduct. There were some who said: "Well, the President shouldn't have stood there and taken all those words; he should have slapped back at that fellow." And I want to say that I think the President was right in the way that he handled it with dignity and courage, rather than tossing insult with insult [applause] because I've had a little experience in talking with Mr. Khrushchev, even if it was just in the kitchen. [Applause.] And I can tell you that one thing you have to learn to do is to keep your temper and learn not to answer insult with insult, because remember - whenever the President of the United States indulges in a war of words he may heat up the international atmosphere to the point where they could set off a nuclear disaster. And so our President must be firm but not belligerent. And by "firmness" what do I mean? Referring again to the summit conference, there were those who said that the President erred in another way. They say that he might have saved the conference, or at least could have tried to have saved it, by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev or apologizing to him * * * [shouts of "no" from the audience] for the U-2 flights. And may I say that in that connection I realize that those expressions were well intentioned, but they show a great lack of understanding, first, of Mr. Khrushchev and the Communists, because an expression of regret or apology would not have saved the conference; it would only have whetted his appetite and made him ask for more. And second, may I say, may the time never come when a President, Democrat or Republican, feels that it is necessary to apologize or express regrets for defending the United States against surprise attack from a potential enemy. [Applause.] Time will not permit my discussing this issue much further. I want to turn just briefly to one other great issue, one which involves our problems at home, and here I'm going to say first what you expect me to say. I want a life, as my Dad used to tell me when we were growing up, that is better for my children than I've had myself. My father had a very humble background and he was never one to point to the good old days; however, he was always looking to the future, to progress, a better life for his children than for himself. We lead a wonderful life in this country today, we're the richest nation, we have the highest standard of living, the greatest freedom that people have ever enjoyed. But we want progress, we want better housing, better health, we want better jobs, better income, better security for our children than we've had for ourselves. And so many of you will say: "Well, that sounds just like what the Democratic candidate would say." And that's right. Let's recognize right here and now, my friends, that all Americans, Democrats and Republicans, want peace for our country. And they all want a better life for our people. But the question is, not the goal but how do you get there? And I say to you that our Democratic opponents have lost the way and we know the way and we've proved it by what we have done. [Applause.] Because in Los Angeles what they said in effect was that the way to get progress for America, better homes and better health and better jobs, was by increasing the size and the functions of the Federal Government and by spending billions more of the people's money. I say "billions more of the people's money," because have you ever heard a man come before you and promise the Federal Government will do this for you and this for you and this for you - whenever you hear that remember you're going to pay the bill. He isn't - you are. And I say that one of the major differences between where our opponents stand and we stand is that they say: Send your money to Washington and we will spend it for you. And we say: You send it to Washington only when you think we can spend it better than your State can or you can for your own benefit. [Applause.] Now, why do I favor this approach?. Not because it's the easiest. You know, somebody was speaking to me the other day about our health program, and they said: "You know, really Mr. Nixon, the opponent's program, the one that they supported which was defeated in the Senate (and, incidentally, to their credit, both Democratic Senators from the State of Georgia voted with the Republicans rather than their national leaders) [applause] wouldn't it be easier to have the Federal Government just take care of the health needs of all of our older citizens, rather than have it done by the States working with the Federal Government and through a voluntary rather than a compulsory program." And the answer is: Yes, it would be easier. As a matter of fact, the easiest way to handle all problems would not to have any States and no city government, but just to have one Federal Government and then you have to go further than that, though - you shouldn't have any Congress, because that's a lot of trouble, too, you just have one man naming it all, and that's the easiest way to provide for people. But it's the wrong way and our 180 years of history proves its the wrong way and that is where we stand. [Applause.] And in that connection, may I just say that it was Thomas Jefferson who stated it better than anybody else many, many years ago, when he said that the States should do those things that they can do as well as the Federal Government. We believe that. Our platform is based upon it and the platform of our opponents at Los Angeles denies it, and we believe it both because we realize that Federal and State cooperation achieves better results, but also because we know that the greatest guarantee of freedom that we have is diffusion of power, local government, local responsibility, rather than concentration upon power, sending all the problems to Washington and the power with it. This is the true Jeffersonian principle and it just happens that the whole situation is turned around and that today we, the Republicans, stand for that Jeffersonian principle and the Democratic platform denies it. [Applause.] And you know what I think? I say today that millions of Democrats in this country are going to vote for the other ticket this year. You know why? Not because they are deserting their party, but because their party at Los Angeles deserted the party of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson. [Applause.] I could go on, but you have stood here a long time and you have been most patient, and I do not want to stop without a word of faith about the future of our country, based on my own experience in these past 8 years. My wife Pat and I have had a very great honor which you, the people of this country, have made possible for us. We have represented America and the President in 55 countries abroad, and we have seen the affection that the great majority of the people of those countries, including even those behind the Iron Curtain, have for America. Not only affection, but trust and hope. Today America is in truth the leader of the free world. Whether we have and whether the world has peace with freedom in these next few years depends upon what we do, and I say to you we cannot and we will not let down the hopes of millions throughout the world who want peace, who want freedom and who want a better life. We will not let them down. And the way that you can help is by doing your best for America. You young people - do your best in school, so that when you grow up and get into business or whatever you go into, you can make a real contribution to this country. Those of you in your jobs - let's have the greatest efficiency that we have so that America can maintain the great lead we have economically. But most of all, let's keep the spiritual and moral strength of America high - this is our greatest advantage in this struggle. [Applause.] And I say to you today that to those who claim that America is second militarily, second economically, second in prestige, they don't know what they're talking about. We are first today, we have the strength to maintain that position, but above all, the moral and spiritual strength of America is today the great hope of the world. And as I conclude, may I say that as we travel throughout this country in these next few days and weeks and months, there will be long days, long hours, many speeches, when we will be very tired. But we will always look back on this beautiful afternoon here in Atlanta, this wonderful crowd, so typical of our country. We will look back remembering your courtesy in coming, but we will look back also with renewed faith in America. And I ask you only as I leave to do this one thing. Consider what I have said, consider what my opponents and others may say, and on election day don't just vote a party label, don't just vote a personality, don't just vote on some other inconsequential issue, but cast a vote for America, and if it's in the best interests of America it will be in the best interests of Georgia and of all of the people in this great audience. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, and my friends here in Alabama -incidentally, I heard some folks say to put down the banners. They want to see Pat, and I don't blame 'em. So may I thank all of you for bringing the banners and may I particularly thank all of you for coming out today and welcoming us as graciously and in such a hospitable fashion as you have. This is a wonderful crowd, far exceeding our expectations and we thank you for giving up a bit of your noon hour so that we could get a chance to meet you and to talk to you. We only wish the time were such that we could shake hands with everybody here but we can't quite do it and so thank you for coming and giving us the chance to speak to such a representative group of the citizens of this great State. I first have a great privilege and that is to bring you a greeting directly from a man who has visited this State - the greetings and best wishes of President Eisenhower to the people of Alabama. I also - may I say that I also want to bring greetings from another man who is the President's good right arm, the man who is his chief administrative assistant, who has done a remarkably able and effective job assisting the President, Jerry Persons, a native of Alabama, who sends his greetings, too. When I left Washington this morning I had heard from Jerry and unfortunately the business was so great at the White House that he couldn't come. But I'm sorry that he can't be here because he had told me what a wonderful welcome we would receive and I shall report to both him and to the President when I return. And now, if I might begin my remarks today by answering a question. A few days ago when we announced that we were going to be able to visit Alabama on this trip an individual came up to me who was interested in our success in this campaign and he said: "Mr. Vice President, why are you going down there?" He said: "If President Eisenhower, who is the most popular man ever to run for President in this century, who got the biggest majority that any President ever got - 9 million votes in 1956 - if he couldn't carry Alabama, why are you going to Alabama?" And so I answered him and I am going to answer that question to you. I did a little studying after that. I checked to see what had happened in Alabama in the last 30 years. In those 30 years not one Democratic candidate for the Presidency has bothered to come to Alabama to campaign. As a matter of fact I am proud to say that in those 30 years the only candidate to come to Alabama to campaign was President Dwight Eisenhower in 1952. And I want to say to you today that I think that situation is wrong. It's wrong for Alabama and it isn't good for the United States. It's wrong, it seems to me, that a situation has existed for 30 years that the candidate of one party didn't find it necessary to come at all and the candidate of the other came only once. And so I say it's time for a change. It's time for the Democratic candidate for the Presidency to quit taking Alabama and the South for granted. Just to keep this on a good bipartisan level, it's time for the Republican candidate for the Presidency to quit conceding Alabama and the South to the Democratic candidate. I announced - as you may recall in my acceptance speech - I announced that I was going to go to every one of the 50 States in this campaign. And certainly, if Pat can hold out, and she's stronger than I am, we're going to make it. And I want to tell you that I hope that all future candidates for the Presidency of both parties will carry their campaigns to every one of the 50 States. I believe this is in the best interest of the States. I think it's in the best interests of the country. And I believe that it is essential that the people of this State - the people of all the Southern States, the people of all the Nation - exercise the right of choice - a choice between the candidate of the one party, the Democratic Party, and the candidate of the other party, the Republican Party, for the Presidency. And to exercise that choice you've got to hear 'em. You have to see 'em. You have to know what they stand for. Let me tell you why I think that choice is so tremendously important to you and to the Nation. It is important because the man this country elects next November 8 has to lead this Nation and the free world in the next 4 years. And the leadership we provide must be the best that the American people can select. And that is why all the people of all the States should participate intelligently in that decision. And so I say to you today - I say to those of you who are Republicans - don't vote for me simply because I happen to be in the same party. To those of you who are Democrats I say: Don't vote simply for your party label. I say to all of you: Vote not as Republicans, not as Democrats, but as Americans. Don't vote on the basis of age, of personality, or religion, or party labels, but select the man who agrees with you on the great issues confronting America and the world. This is what America needs. This is the message that I am carrying to every State in this Union, North, South, and East and West. Vote on the basis of the issues, not on the label, not on the other matters which do not matter as much as do the issues themselves. And now I come to a second question. I have indicated that the people of this State should exercise a choice between the two candidates. And right after our convention I got a few letters from - quite a few as a matter of fact - from some of my friends down in the South saying: "Well, you didn't leave us any choice after that convention." In effect these letters said: "A plague on both your houses. We don't see any difference between the two parties." Now obviously those letters refer to one issue in which a great number of the people of this State, and for that matter of other States, find the positions of both parties not to their liking. I refer, of course, to the issue of civil rights. You know my position on that issue. I expressed it again when I was in Greensboro just last week. It is the position of conviction. It is one that I will only mention at this time to this extent by saying that I recognize that this is not just a southern problem. But it is a problem in my State of California, and in New York and in all the States of the Union as well. It isn't going to be solved by demagoguery, but it's going to be solved by men and women of good will, sitting down and working out these complex problems. And I would hope that the next President of the United States, whoever he may be, will be able to give the kind of leadership that will reach solutions and make progress in this field in the American tradition. And so on that issue I am sure that many of you would say: "We see very little to choose between the Republicans and the Democrats." What is your choice, then? And my answer is: Consider not just one issue, consider them all. Consider, for example, what is perhaps and in my opinion certainly is the greatest, most important overriding issue of our times and of this campaign. You know what it is? It's the future of those youngsters down there holding the signs. My Tricia and Julie, incidentally, we saw a sign coming in "We Want Julie" on the way down and another for Tricia, so we can see that the children are well represented here, too. It's their future. And when I speak of their future, what do I mean? You know we can have the best jobs and the best social security, the best housing that any of us can imagine and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. And so, my friends, Democrats, Republicans, all of you, remember this: The most important decision you make this November is which of the two candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency can best lead America in the next 4 years and keep the peace for America without surrender of principle or territory. This is the greatest decision. Now on this issue I happen to believe that our ticket offers a better case - a better case on the record. I think it's a better case in terms of experience and a better case in terms of a program. One, the record. We're proud of the fact that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got the United States out of one war; we've kept it out of other wars and we do have peace without surrender today. And this we're proud of as Americans. As far as leadership is concerned, and experience, it would be presumptuous for me to refer to my own experience. That is for you to judge. But speaking of the vice-presidential candidate may I say that I don't believe that there's a man in the world today who has more experience and who is more capable of handling the Communist leaders at the conference table and in working for peace without surrender than our vice-presidential candidate, Henry Cabot Lodge, who has represented us at the U.N. And I can assure you that he will work, if we have the opportunity, as a partner with the President for this cause of peace without surrender in these next 4 years. As far as the future is concerned, what do we stand for? The things that all of you believe in. One, if we are to have peace we must begin with military strength that is not only second to none, but that is ahead of that of any potential aggressor. What does this mean? It means that the United States must always have enough strength militarily that, regardless of what a potential enemy has, if he should launch a surprise attack, we have enough left to knock out completely his warmaking capability. Now you have heard some comments about the weakness of America militarily and I just want to set the record straight here today. Make no mistake about it. America today is the strongest nation in the world militarily. We have the kind of strength that I have referred to and we can and will maintain that level of strength in the years ahead. And I say that American strength must come before all other considerations and I know that both Democrats and Republicans agree with me when I make that statement. Now, it isn't enough however, just to have a great, strong military strength to which Alabama has contributed so much, incidentally - Huntsville and other great bases here in this State - and to which you will continue to make a contribution, I can assure you, in our next administration. What we have to combine strength with, and I speak with some experience here, we have to combine strength militarily with firmness diplomatically. Let me point it up this way: We deal with the Communist threat today, one which threatens the peace and security of the world. And in order to avoid war and avoid surrender, we have to be firm but at the same time we must not be belligerent. Let me tell you what I think was the way we should handle Mr. Khrushchev at the conference table. You recall the recent summit conference in Paris. He went into a tantrum. He blew up the conference. He called the President of the United States names such as no chief of state has ever used against another in the history of civilization. What did the President do? Well some criticize the President for not answering back in kind. And I want to tell you that I think the President was right and I'll tell you why. When you're strong and when you're confident you do not have to answer insult with insult. You maintain your dignity as President Eisenhower did in Paris. There are others, however, who criticized the President on the other score. They said: "Well now, maybe the President made a mistake, Maybe he should have saved that conference or could have saved it by apologizing to Mr. Khrushchev for the U-2 flight or expressing regret for these flights." [Cries of "No!" "No!"] Well, I think your answer is certainly indicative of the viewpoint of most Americans. And it is the correct answer. It's correct on two scores. First, may no President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, ever feel it necessary to apologize for attempting to protect the United States against surprise attack. But you know it's wrong on a more significant score even than that. An apology to Mr. Khrushchev or expressing regret to him would have been just exactly the wrong thing to do. It would not satisfy him. It only whets his appetite. You must be firm. You must negotiate, but you must never make concessions without getting a concession in return. This is the only kind of language he understands and that's the kind of leadership we need at the conference table to keep the peace and to keep it without surrender for America. Now if I may turn to a second issue. And here in the domestic field - and here is one where we have a great difference between the Democratic platform - at least the one adopted in Los Angeles - and the platform of the Republicans at Chicago. I refer to platforms because both their candidates, as he very well should and does, stands by their platform as I stand by ours. What is the difference? The difference is not in the goals we seek. I know that our opponents, just as we do, want all the good things of life for the American people. We want better health for our people, better housing, better education. We want progress and jobs, a rising standard of living. We want America to continue to lead the world in all these areas. But you see the question is not what you want at the end but how do you get there. What road should America take to get the housing and the education, the jobs, all the good things of life that we want?. And here the answers are very different. They say that the way to get all these things is to increase spending at the Federal level by billions of dollars and by increasing the size and the functions of the Federal Government. And we say that the way to get progress for America is the way we have been following in the past 8 years - a way that has resulted in the greatest progress in history - the highest standard of living in history. And what is that way? A way not of increasing the functions of the Federal Government but by increasing the opportunities for investment and contributions of millions of individual free Americans. This is the way to progress. And we say further - and here is another great difference between our approaches - we say that when we have a problem, whether it's in education or health and the like, that we should attempt to solve those problems not by turning it over always and starting with the Federal Government, but by starting at the other end of the spectrum, by recognizing and respecting the rights of the States and the local governments and the individuals rather than turning it over to the Federal Government. I think Thomas Jefferson put it as well as anybody when he said that States should be left to do whatever acts they can do as well as the Federal Government. And I am proud to say that our platform is based on that Jeffersonian principle, while the platform of our opponents completely denies it. Now let me tell you why this principle is so important First because the way to the greatest progress is through government which is closest to the people whenever that is possible, through local government and State government. Yet the Federal Government must step in with projects in the West, with TVA and others, where the State and local governments can't do the job. But where it can be done in the local or State level, it's done better there where you have more control over it. And then there's another reason, a terribly important one. Some people have said: "Well, wouldn't it be a lot simpler, Mr. Vice President, if we just didn't take all this education and say: 'Let the Federal Government do it. Then we'd have a standard salary for our teachers, standards of what everybody is to be taught, the same for everybody all over the country. And we'd get away from 50 State systems in this field.'" And other people have said in the field of health that we just recently considered: "Wouldn't it be a lot easier, Mr. Vice President, just to have one Federal health program for our older people, rather than the kind of a program that the administration stands for, which is a Federal-State program with State responsibility as well as Federal?" And my answer is, yes. It would be simpler. It would be easier to turn all our problems over to the Federal Government. But you know what would be even simpler. To do away with the Congress, too, just to have one man at the top determine everything. That's the simplest way. But you see, the reason why we believe in strong local government, in strong State government, State responsibility, rather than turning over to the Federal Government is this: Jefferson knew this. The American people must be reminded of it. The best guarantee of freedom is local government and diffusion of power. And when you allow all the power to be centered in Washington you attack the very fundamentals of freedom itself. Now I suppose some of the folks in this audience say: "Well, which one is the Republican and which is the Democrat?" And all that I can say is this: That the issues I have been talking about are bigger than the Republican Party, of which I am proud to be a member; they are bigger than the Democratic Party. They are as big as America itself. And I am proud that my party takes this position. And I say, my friends, that this November millions of Democrats all over America will vote for our ticket not because they are deserting their party but because their party deserted their principles at the Democratic Convention in Los Angeles. And now, may I tell you again how deeply I have appreciated your standing and listening, for considering the case that I have presented, and I ask you to think in these terms of these great issues as you go to the polls on election day. But I would not want to leave this great city without a word of faith about the future. I have had a great honor and responsibility, together with my wife, Pat, in the last 8 years to represent America with her all over the world. We have visited 55 countries and we've always been tremendously proud of the country that we represented and of the principles for which she stands. You hear these days that America's prestige has slipped; that America is disliked throughout the world and not respected. Let me just suggest that, some of those who say that, ought to travel a little abroad. Oh, you will find the Communists, yes. They will be doing what they did to us at Caracas and what they were trying to do to the President in Tokyo. But let me tell you this: America can be proud of the fact that in nations throughout the world and among peoples on both sides of the Iron Curtain, people respect this country, not just for our wealth and not just for our military strength but because America stands for more than that, because we stand for spiritual and moral values that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. And, my friends, may I leave this final message with you: This is an exciting time in which to live. Oh, the problems are great. In Cuba, in the Congo, in the Near East, all over the world, there are problems with which we are confronted and we will continue to be confronted with them in the years ahead. But the opportunities are even greater. America today is the leader of the world. We must be worthy of that leadership. We must be worthy of our faith and to be worthy of that leadership this means that we must never lose confidence in ourselves, in our strength, in our ideals. And so I say to you as I leave today: Show your faith in America; show your belief in America in everything you do. You students in your schools do the best that you can so that you can contribute the most to your country when you enter life later on. And all of you in your jobs, do the best that you can so that America can retain its lead in the world. And putting it in terms of this election, may each and every one of you who vote go to the polls on election day; go into that polling booth and consider the issues and vote not for the party, not for the man, but vote for America. And if you vote for America it will be good for you and for Alabama. Thanks. (After being thanked by the mayor of Birmingham at the conclusion of his address, Mr. Nixon added the following:) Thank you. Well, Mr. Mayor, I think that this great audience - that was as fine a demonstration as I can think of, that when it comes to hospitality there's nothing partisan about it. And certainly we do appreciate your welcome and I want to say while I'm here that I've seen many city halls and I've been in many mayors' offices but never in a finer one than you have. It's a lot better than I have as Vice President of the United States. Thank you.
I believe it is most fortunate that both candidates for the Presidency agree that the United States is committed to the preservation of the independence of Israel, the prevention of armed aggression in the Near East, and the use of our best offices to bring about a stable peace between Israel and the Arab States. Our whole policy has demonstrated this bipartisan effort. It was indeed most eloquently and clearly expressed by President Eisenhower in April 1956, when he said:  The United States, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations, will observe its commitments within constitutional means to oppose any aggression in the area. The United States is likewise determined to support and assist any nation which might be subjected to such aggression. The United States is confident that other nations will act similarly in the cause of peace. I am confident that no matter who occupies the White House during the coming administration this firm national policy will remain unchanged. But we must recognize that there are those who hope to profit by fanning enmities in the Near East. For example, stability in the area which is a necessary precondition to a just settlement of the tragic Arab-Israel conflict has been seriously prejudiced by the irresponsibility of Soviet sales of arms and by the Kremlin's continued meddling in the internal affairs of Arab countries for its own Communist purposes. The Soviets have moreover refused to contribute any support whatever to the United Nations Emergency Force which has been the major stabilizing influence in the Middle East. In addition to our own efforts, the role of the United Nations must be emphasized. It should continue to receive the greatest support we can provide. We have had an encouraging demonstration of what it can do in the way Ambassador Lodge successfully brought about a formula to settle the sharp difficulties between Israel and the Argentine over the Adolf Eichmann case. As long as the Arab boycott and blockade continue notwithstanding our strong disapproval and repeated protests, as long as Americans are barred from certain countries because of their religious faith, as long as Arab refugees are confined to camps and their unhappiness continues - as long as these conditions exist, the Middle East will be a source of world tension and a continuing threat to international peace. These are the policies I believe we should follow to meet these problems:  1. Strong and unceasing efforts to establish freedom of passage through tile Suez Canal and to put an end to discriminatory practices through the area.  2. Encouraging and supporting measures making it possible for the Arab States to develop their material resources, raise living standards and thereby increase opportunities for growth and for the resettlement of Arab refugees where their labor and skills can be employed to full advantage.  3. Continued and increased support of the courageous and successful efforts of the people of Israel to make the desert bloom and to turn their country into a new land of promise. Israel has dramatically demonstrated to the world the effectiveness of free institutions and the democratic way by these efforts and by the technical aid it has extended to the newly independent and underdeveloped nations in Africa and Asia.  4. Above all, continued and tireless search for practical means to achieve a solid and lasting peace in the Middle East. This means the avoidance of glib promises, the futility of which has been proven many times over, and concentration on persistent negotiations through every diplomatic channel available to us. The time has come when we should try to bring about an overall settlement of the Palestine question in all its aspects. I refer to the status of the Arab refugees, the development of the waters of the Jordan, and other relationships between Israel and its neighbors. Finding a settlement of these problems with justice and fairness to all is important, not only to Israel and its neighbors, but to the peace and security of the United States and the world. For that reason, I intend, if elected President, to give this problem the highest priority by assigning primary responsibility for directing negotiations in this field to a man who has so magnificently demonstrated at the United Nations that he is one of the most skilled diplomats of our times - my running mate, Henry Cabot Lodge. There will, of course, have to be consideration by each side of the problems of the other side. The United States should be willing to contribute generously toward bringing about such a settlement. It will not be easy, and I promise no miracles but it is so imperative to the Nation's interest that a solution be found that we must devote our best efforts to that end. As I conclude this message, I am reminded of the words of the late John Foster Dulles, which express so well my own attitude toward United States-Israel relations. Those words are:  The preservation of the State of Israel is what I regard as one of the essential goals of U.S. foreign policy.
Hon. JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, U.S. Senate, Washington, D.C. DEAR JOHN: I know you will agree with me that the present tobacco program is meeting the needs of tobacco producers and is serving well the purposes for which it was intended. Certainly it is the most successful of the price support programs for the basic farm crops. We must, of course, recognize that each crop has advantages and problems of its own. The first requirement for any commodity program designed to serve the needs of farmers who depend on a particular crop for their livelihood, it seems to me, is that it be carefully suited to the production patterns, marketing practices, and uses of that particular crop. It must work, and it must have the support of farmers. I believe the present tobacco program meets these tests. During my service in the House of Representatives in the Senate, and as Vice President, I have observed the united efforts of tobacco growers, their leadership, and their representatives in the Congress, to maintain their program and keep it sound. For example, I remember your successful fight in the Senate to write fixed 90-percent supports for tobacco into permanent law, an effort in which you were joined by Vice President Barkley, who was then serving in the Senate. Your amendment was included in the Agricultural Act of 1948, and also in that of 1949, for which I voted in the House of Representatives. Then in 1954 - for the first time in any Presidential farm message - President Eisenhower gave special recognition to the tobacco program. Noting the particular nature of tobacco production and marketing, and the ability of tobacco growers to keep production in line with demand, the President at that time recommended continuation of the tobacco program with fixed price supports at 90 percent of parity. Earlier this year I watched with interest the course of the bill you reported from the Committee on Agriculture with Senator Jordan, of North Carolina, which was signed into law by the President, to stabilize price support for tobacco at the 1959 level, with provision for increased supports if farmers' costs rose. It has, therefore, long been clear to me that the tobacco program is working well and that it has the united support of tobacco growers and other responsible farm leadership, together with bipartisan support in the Congress. In recent months I have examined all the major farm programs. Since receiving your letter I have made a particular study of the present condition of the tobacco program and have come to the following conclusions: The tobacco program has not resulted in any substantial loss to the Government nor has it been operated at a heavy cost to taxpayers. It has had the overwhelming support of the tobacco farmers themselves, as expressed by their votes year after year to continue the program. In recent years it has resulted in the best prices in history for tobacco growers. Tobacco growers and their leadership have consistently taken the initiative in recommending any adjustments needed to keep their program sound. Tobacco growers of the two major cigarette types - flue-cured tobacco grown in the "bright leaf" belts, and burley grown in Kentucky and surrounding States - have steadily reduced surplus supplies each year. They have held production of flue-cured tobacco under use for 4 straight years, and production of burley has been less than disappearance for 6 straight years. Tobacco contributes nearly $2 billion in Federal revenues each year, double the amount received by growers for their crops. In short, the present tobacco program has worked to the advantage of farmers, the Government, and consumers. In view of these facts and the record of responsible leadership by tobacco-State farm organizations, tobacco grower cooperatives, and other tobacco groups, I wish to state now my position on the tobacco program. I wholly support the present tobacco program, and if elected President, I will recommend that it be continued without change. If improvements or technical modifications, as have been made in the past, appear to be needed in the future, I will depend on the recommendations of tobacco growers, tobacco-State farm organizations, and their representatives in the Congress. I believe this position is consistent with my view that each crop must have a program best suited to its needs, and I am glad to give my wholehearted and enthusiastic support to this successful farm program. Sincerely,  (Signed) Dick,  RICHARD NIXON.
We are in the midst of the most explosive scientific revolution the world has ever seen. We are penetrating the outer immensities of space at the same time we explore the inner molecular secrets of life. The breadth of efforts and the prospects of endless change now challenge the ultimate limits of our thinking. The aim of this statement is to indicate my views as to how America should meet this challenge and to contribute to a better understanding of what is happening and what is likely to happen in the scientific revolution through which we are passing? At the outset, it is essential that we recognize science as a many-purpose tool, fully as necessary to human progress as it is to the security of free men. Our Nation demands a strong science and a vigorous technology to defend itself, to advance personal liberty, and to raise standards of living. Science, in turn, relies for healthy growth upon a better public understanding of what it is, of how the scientist works and of his need for resources to carry forward his work. It would be foolhardy for us to ignore the fact that we are confronted with a serious challenge in some phases of science by the Soviet Union. However, the fact that we are challenged should not govern what we do. Our free and vigorous science, adequately supported, has met - can meet and surpass - any challenge. In appraising the Soviet challenge, we must recognize that while they have many competent scientists they have chosen to muster their scientific strength primarily for military propaganda and similar purposes. In the Soviet system, scientists, engineers, and materials go first to serve the State - and then, if time and money permit, to serve man. For example, they have placed great emphasis on the development of high-thrust rockets, a field where they lead us because they started their program in 1945 while we had no program worthy of the name until 1952. In contrast, their efforts in fields such as medicine are relatively mediocre as compared to ours in the United States. Overall, in the field of science, we are well ahead of the Soviet Union today. But the fact that we are ahead is no ground for complacency. If we are to stay ahead, we must move ahead. And we will move ahead only if we adequately recognize and develop the tremendous potential of the scientific revolution. To meet this challenge which confronts us, one cardinal point must be kept in mind. Nations do not make scientific discoveries nor do governments, industries, universities, or institutions. The great gift of discovery is reserved not to institutions but to man alone. The scientist is the pioneer, the discoverer. The omnipotent Soviet hierarchy has realized this. We, as a whole people, must realize it too. First, we must make the necessary education available to those who have the desire and the ability. Given these creative men and women - and we are fortunate to have so many - what must we do to aid them that they in turn can help us meet the challenge? We must give them freedom to explore. We must give them an adequate facility for their work - seismographs, oceanographic ships, astronomical observatories, or whatever is the need. Finally, we must see that they have the funds for adequate salaried collaborators, assistants, instruments, and supplies. We have among us the creative men and women to meet the challenge. We have but to encourage and back them to the utmost. We must develop a better understanding and appreciation in the United States of the scientist and his work. One of the reasons for the Soviet Union's recent progress in the field of science is that under the Communist philosophy, science has been a critical and vital segment of overall planning throughout the 40-year existence of the Soviet Union. In contrast, Americans as a people have been brought up from the earliest days of our history with the challenge of an unconquered wilderness and an apparently limitless frontier. It was the "doers" rather than the "thinkers" who were in greatest demand. For many years only a relatively small segment of our people felt that scholars and scholarship were important. We have had notable inventors such as Bell, Edison, Whitney, Fulton, and the Wright brothers, but these men were revered more for their invention of practical devices than were many others in the field of pure scholarship. How many Americans know of the great contributions of Gibbs, Jausky, and Christofilos? The feeling seemed to be that scholars were a rather impractical group whose thoughts and research meant relatively little to the practical world. That attitude came to an abrupt end in the birth of the atomic bomb. Then, for the first time, large segments of our population began to realize that the fundamental research of scientists and the thought processes of the theoreticians were the vital underpinning of all new and dramatic discoveries. The process by which scientists think, do research, and make discoveries, must be better understood by all Americans. For example, very few of us have an adequate conception of the endless hours spent by scholars studying the electron, hours without which we would not have our television sets. Dr. Jonas Salk is recognized as a man who brought polio vaccine into being. Yet, as he has often pointed out, dozens, even hundreds, of dedicated scientists spent a lifetime of work, frequently under trying conditions and with limited funds, in order to create, step by step, the knowledge which finally permitted him to produce a vaccine. Such a vaccine is like the capping stone on the pinnacle of a pyramid. Without all the rest of the stone, sand, and mortar which serve as underpinning, the final cap stone could not be placed. The men who built the rest of the pyramid are the unsung men of science, who are known only to their colleagues. They deserve far greater respect and support by the people whom they serve than they now receive. But while research and technology are changing our way of life in such a manner as to demand all the vision and ability which leadership can provide, the scientific revolution should not frighten or overwhelm us. For example, science has put into our hands the ability to predict. Yet in general this Nation has not taken full advantage - or even been fully aware of this element of predictability. For instance, rockets are commonplace today. What the average American does not know is that much of the initial basic research on rockets was done not in Germany, not in Russia, but in the United States, decades ago, by Dr. Robert H. Goddard. In 1945, when the Americans reached German V-2 rocket bases and were querying the German rocket specialists, they were startled to have one German question them about the interrogation. "After all," he said, "you have the man in your country who knows all about rockets and from whom we got many of our ideas, Dr. Goddard." Goddard was ignored in the United States. He was not only a man with theories, he actually built and flew rockets. In 1926 he developed and fired successfully a liquid-fuel rocket. In 1935, he shot off a rocket that went faster than sound. He developed patents for multistage rockets and a gyroscopic steering device. It was perfectly possible in the 1930's to predict missiles, rocketry, and interplanetary probes. The British who died from the German V-2 rockets are testimony to the German awareness of the implications of Goddard's work and the unawareness of the free world. In contrast, a current example of increasing awareness of our ability to predict and act as a result of a prediction is our present approach to the problem of fresh water resources. Scientists - hydrologists, geologists, and meteorologists can tell us with a great degree of accuracy what the fresh water resources of any particular area are and will be. Knowing this and knowing how much fresh water is needed for each person each day, as well as for farms and industry, we can predict that certain areas and even whole States will be short of water in a relatively few years. In view of this, we can muster our scientific resources to meet the problem before it arises. We must not wait until our homes, our farms or our industries are in dire need before we turn our serious attention to new means of obtaining more fresh water. In the ocean we have virtually infinite water resources; there are many untapped inland sources of brackish water. Because shortages are foreseeable, we know that we must employ methods which can economically derive fresh water from both sea and brackish water sources. Conventional techniques for this purpose are far too expensive to be considered. The key is economy. Our present administration already has begun a program and has created a special office in the Department of the Interior for the research and development of pilot plants and new processes to provide additional fresh water economically. Although it may appear to be a contradiction, one of the factors that we can with absolute surety is that major new breakthroughs in science will produce the unpredictable. This is inevitable as scientists explore into the unknown. I recall the time Dr. Herbert F. York, Director of Defense Research and Engineering, briefed a group of Government officials on what we might learn from our explorations of outer space. Using a blackboard, Dr. York ticked off the possibility of radiation data from the sun which could alter drastically our knowledge of earthly weather. The very close environs of space, he went on, might yield information about the high energy particles which, in turn, could greatly change our methods of harnessing energy and even our fundamental concepts of the universe. Finishing his list, Dr. York turned to his listeners: "You may," he advised, "forget everything else I have just said, but please remember what I am about to say. Probably the most important thing we will learn in space is nowhere on my list. It is not here because we cannot now conceive what it may be. But as our exploration goes ahead it will come unexpectedly, perhaps suddenly, just as vital knowledge has come to us in the past." Let us be clear that new and unpredictable discoveries should not disconcert us. We must have leadership which is constantly on the alert for them and their implications. For new knowledge can readily be phased into, modify, or even alter former plans. Imaginative leadership must exist not only in the executive and legislative branches of Government, but in private industry, agriculture, mining, and all parts of the economy. New advances in science will affect the entire warp and woof of our national fabric. Each thread can interact upon the whole structure. A specialist in a particular field may have given adequate guidance in the past. But today and increasingly in the future, we need men who have knowledge in depth, as does a specialist, but who must also have knowledge in breadth - in short, a "generalist." Indeed, this new requirement for "generalists" who can comprehend different but interrelated specialties stems from science itself. Until quite recently the many branches of science were quite distinct. A meteorologist recorded and tried to predict weather, an astronomer scanned the heavens, and a physician treated man. Today the traditional distinct boundaries among different sciences have become blurred and fused. As scientists inquired further in their respective fields, they arrive at the basic common denominators of the universe - units of matter, the atom, and the molecule, units of energy and of time and so on. Therefore, sciences which used to be thought of as disparate are now becoming interrelated and indeed interlocked. An astronomer may be interested in the great periodic solar eruptions which send out different types of radiation and appear to have a marked effect on our weather. Physicians, inquiring into bioclimatology, find that certain types of wind, weather, and season seem to exert a definite effect on man and animals. For example, when the so-called chinook or foehn winds blow, the automobile accident and suicide rates appear to increase. Coronary thrombosis, too, is found to be more prevalent at one season than in another. Thus, for fruitful study, the physician must be conversant with the basic physical principles under investigation by the astronomer and he, in turn, must have a comprehension of the basic phenomenology of medicine. Without a mutuality of understanding, collaborative research is impossible. A logical extension of the nascent merging of different sciences in a common cause is the mutual use of theory, techniques, and instrumentation which once were the province of a single science. This fusion has created a new dimension in science. Its fulfillment is usually beyond the ability of our conventional research structure. An example can be seen in the problem we face in meteorology. In 1958 the United States produced only 14 Ph. D.'s in meteorology. The meteorology departments of universities cannot hope to provide essential tools for modern research in weather. These include high altitude airplanes, upper atmosphere rockets and the means to launch them, giant wind tunnels and the like. The most logical facility for the job would be a national meteorological institute. Already such an institute has specifically been recommended by representatives of 14 universities who considered the problem, at Government request, for many months. I believe the next Congress should adopt legislation authorizing the National Science Foundation to take the leadership in sponsoring a major new program for basic research. By "sponsor" I do not mean control, finance, and operate. The program should be conducted through a number of basic research institutes located in the principal geographical areas of the country. Financial support of these institutes should be as much as possible a joint public and private enterprise with both Federal and State Governments participating on one hand and universities, private industry, and foundations on the other. The Federal funds should be made available on a matching basic with the State and private contributions. The research institutes should be established cooperatively by our universities which engage in graduate research programs. They should be governed by boards created by these universities. A liaison with the National Science Foundation would be desirable but essentially the system of administration would be comparable to that of the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, an interdisciplinary facility established to explore the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The new basic research institutes will complement in an important way the work of existing Government-supported research such as that conducted by National Institutes of Health and the facilities of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Departments of Agriculture and Commerce, and other agencies. They will also complement the splendid efforts now sponsored directly by the Nation's colleges and universities and by the existing private institutes such as the Rockefeller Institute and the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton, N.J. Indeed, institutes as research and training centers must be a vital factor in our future development of science and technology. They should in no way preempt the role of the university, nor its separate and valid claim for our support. Rather, institutes should complement the university whether they are affiliated directly or are conducted independently. They would provide not only special facilities as in the example of the proposed meteorological institute, but would be centers where men representing many different scientific fields - interested in common problems - could gather. Thus, varied yet mutually reinforcing viewpoints would be brought to bear on major problems whose dimensions cross over into many specialty fields. These research centers would be ideal for graduate students to learn the numerous complementary disciplines which are creating exciting new fields of scientific endeavor. The most successful basic research has always been coupled with the training of young scientists. It is important that the two go together, both for the most favorable development of the new mind, but more importantly to keep the process of exploration from growing sterile. For example, one particularly interesting and relatively new aspect of science is our rapidly increasing knowledge of health, disease, and heredity at the molecular level. The necessary research requires biophysicists, geneticists, physicians, chemists, mathematicians, electronic engineers, and the like. The new graduate students in these fields are readily susceptible to the process of intellectual cross-fertilization. Both the purposes of this training and the bringing together of such diverse investigators with their complex and costly equipment are best served by an institute. These additional points should be emphasized:  1. Institutes should be small rather than large. Bigness results in departmentalization and compartmentalization and tends to preclude the desired cross-fertilization among investigators. 2. If affiliated directly with universities, institutes should maintain a degree of autonomy. This is absolutely vital because these institutes should be a major addition to our basic research effort. Far too often we overburden the scientific pathfinder with too much of teaching, administration, committee work, and a host of other "busyness" which saps his energy and cannibalizes his time. In the relatively autonomous research institute, this can be prevented. Basic research is the indispensable exploration of the unknown. Applied research is the conversion of the discoveries of basic research into products, techniques, processes, and services. Because of our heritage of expecting practical achievement from effort, we too often inquire of the basic research scientist: "What discovery do you plan to make?" Or, "What can be done with it?" We must realize that this type of impatience for immediate results can be catastrophic. It prevents our basic research scientist from exercising his true function - achieving knowledge for its own sake. As a nation we must realize that our 20th century pioneer, the basic research man, is one of our greatest and most precious national resources. He is the man who will make the new strides in knowledge, the breakthroughs, upon which all the rest of our science and technology depend. We must have facilities where the creative man - the scientist with vaulting imagination - can have the opportunity and the freedom to explore. The universe stands before us and we are at the threshold of its major exploration. The mysteries of the microcosm of our bodies and minds will yield - step by step - to our scientific understanding provided we as a nation and as a people support our scientists to the utmost.
Mr. RODNEY M. LOCKWOOD, Detroit, Mich. DEAR ROD: This is just a note to tell you how pleased I was to learn from Charlie Rhyne, national chairman of Volunteers for Nixon-Lodge, that you have accepted the appointment as chairman of their homebuilders' committee. I want you to know how much I personally appreciate your willingness to accept this position. The importance of the homebuilding industry, and the need for continued stimulation of its growth as a vital segment of our economy cannot be overemphasized. Despite the recent accomplishments of the housing industry, some stubborn problems stand in the way of achieving our common objective of better homes for all Americans, and the Federal Government must help provide the economic climate and the incentives which will make this objective obtainable. To achieve these ends, we must rely increasingly on the active participation of interested and informed citizens in developing suitable programs. For my own part, one of the most gratifying aspects of public life is the support of enthusiastic people such as yourself who are willing to assume a responsible role of leadership within their communities and professions, and who, in so doing, inevitably make a substantial personal contribution to the national scene. With appreciation and every good wish,  Sincerely, RICHARD NIXON.
This is, as Cabot Lodge has already indicated, a tremendously vital campaign, as are all campaigns for the Presidency. I can say that it is having a very auspicious start because of your dedication in coming out, as you have, not only from Maryland, but from Virginia and Pennsylvania, from other parts of the eastern seaboard, to send us off, as you have. I can say, too, that the fact that we have here the leaders of the House and Senate who made such a magnificent record throughout the past 2 years, but particularly in this last special session, certainly warms our hearts, as I know it warms the heart of the President, who worked with them, and they with him. But also may I say that one thing that is very encouraging to us, as we begin, is to see the candidates for the Congress that you have here in the State of Maryland. As we came up the steps, Cabot Lodge, the President and I, and met each of them, we all agreed that we had never seen a finer looking group of candidates than this group of candidates at the State level. This will help us in Maryland and throughout the Nation to win at the national level, and we thank you for that. Now, there are, of course, a great number of issues in this campaign. This is not the time to discuss them in length or in detail. I would only like to indicate briefly the responsibilities that I think Cabot Lodge and I will bear as we begin the official part of the campaign today, here in Columbus, in Ohio, and I in a trip across the country. Incidentally, before doing that, may I say I apologize for bringing California weather to Washington, but, Mr. President, I just got a weather report on the rest of the country, and in your home State of Texas and in my home State of California and in my mother's home State of Indiana where we are going to be later, we're going to have Eisenhower weather all day long. Not only are we going to have Eisenhower weather, but we hope, Mr. President, to be able to conduct this campaign in a way that will meet the high standards you have set for the political campaigning in 1952 and 1956. We intend to carry this campaign to every one of the 50 States. We are doing so because we believe that no State should be conceded and none should be taken for granted. We believe every State is a battleground; every one is close, but also there is another reason for doing this: we believe this is a time when all Americans, wherever they live in this country, should have an opportunity to see and hear the candidates and have a choice and make a decision between the candidates - not just on traditional party labels, but on the great issues on which they stand - and as we travel north and south and east and west, we are going to carry this campaign to the country, speaking to those issues in the same way in every part of the country, because this is what the people are entitled to hear. May I say, too, that we are not going to make an appeal solely on the basis of our party affiliation. We could go and speak to this group here, for example, and say "Vote Republican," because you are Republicans, but we believe the issues are so important the need for leadership, the best leadership America can produce is so great that people in this campaign should not think of the party label. They should think of what is best for America, and they should judge the candidates for President and Vice President on the basis of this standard alone, and we present our case, to Republicans, to Democrats, to independents on that ground. Study our records: Consider our experience; consider where we stand on the issues, and determine whether you believe that the Nixon-Lodge team can better provide the leadership that America needs, can better follow the leadership that President Eisenhower has given, or whether the other can better do it. This is the way we will present our case to the Nation, and may I say, Mr. President, that, as we leave on this campaign, there are a number of things which will make us very proud. One, speaking from a personal standpoint: I am very proud of the fact that I have as my running mate a man who, under your direction and leadership, has represented the United States so magnificently in the United Nations for the past 7½ years. And, since I believe, as I do, that, as in 1952 and as in 1956, the great overriding issue before the American people, more important than all the domestic issues, the one which they should think of above everything else, is keeping the peace without surrender and extending freedom through the world, may I say that since that is the issue I am particularly proud that I have as a running mate a man who, under your direction, is so qualified to work with the next President in extending freedom and working for peace, as you have extended it and worked for it during the past 8 years. But, Mr. President, I am most proud today of the fact that he and I are able to run on your record. Sometimes in political campaigns, you know, candidates are not willing to defend the record or to run on it. They run away from it, as the Democratic candidate did in 1952, but this year we are proud of the record that you have made the past 7½ years, a record that has brought peace to America, enjoyed, and that has brought progress for our people. We are proud of that record, and we welcome the opportunity not only to run on it but to build on it and to build on it in the years ahead, as you want the next President and the next Vice President to build on. And, so, for that reason, may I close my remarks today before this crowd by saying: we thank you, Mr. President, for the leadership you have given. We thank you for the standards you set in your great campaigns, and we hope that we, in these next 8 hard weeks, grueling weeks, can maintain the dignity which you always maintained in your campaigns, that we can talk on the great issues, as you always talked on those great issues, that we can maintain our balance and present always to the people the cause for which we stand in a way that they can understand it, in a way that they can have a clear choice between where we stand and where our opponents stand; and if we meet your standards we will have served our party, but, more than that, we will have served America, and that will assure the victory toward which we are working.
Thank you. After the Democratic convention in Los Angeles I received a number of letters from people around the country suggesting that because of the makeup of that ticket we really shouldn't bother to come to Texas because there was no chance to carry it. [Audience shouts "No."] I want you to know that after what I have seen today, not only in this hall, but the thousands of people on the city streets of Dallas and on the outskirts, and I think those people were wrong. And I can tell you that we're going to campaign Texas as it has never been campaigned before, in this campaign. [Applause.] And we intend to win Texas as we won it in 1952 and 1956. [Applause.] Now, of course, those are pretty big words. This is a big State and you do things in a big way, and I want to be a Texan while I'm here; you can be sure of that. [Applause.] But while it is often said that Texans talk big, they also deliver big; and we intend to deliver big on our talk as far as our program is concerned and our promises in this campaign. [Applause.] May I say at the outset of my remarks today, that in suggesting that we can carry this State next November, I recognize that from the standpoint of party registration, the odds are against us. I think Bruce has told me that it's two and a half to three-to-one registration Democratic as against Republican, and so the natural question of a political observer would be: How are you going to win? Sure you'll get the Republicans - the fellows who vote for Alger, and the ladies, too - and a lot of ladies vote for him, incidentally, as well as men, I know [applause] and work for him. But what about the Democrats? And so today in my remarks I would like to talk not only to my Republican friends here, to tell you how proud I am of Bruce Alger, our only Republican Congressman. We only wish we had more from Texas of his persuasion because we can sure use them down there. [Applause.] As some of you who have watched our conventions know, Bruce and I don't always agree, but one thing about him, he's a man of principle and men of principle we can always use in the Congress of the United States. [Applause.] And on the great fundamental issues we are drawn together, as are not only Republicans, but Democrats and independents in this campaign as well. And so I speak not only to my Republican friends, not only to the independent voters, but I speak very frankly to the Democrats in the State of Texas today. And I speak to you along these lines. I present the case for our ticket not in partisan terms - it wouldn't be wise to do it here, of course, but there are other reasons that I do not present it in those terms - I present the case for our ticket to the Democrats of Texas in your giving the answer to this question: which of the candidates and which of the platforms are closer to your views? Ours or theirs? And I'll be willing to take my chances on your answer to that question this November, because I am confident [applause] I am confident what your answer will be. I think it will be the same as it was in 1952 and 1956, and I'll tell you why. I have noted - and incidentally I well understand why they do so - that opponents have said: Show you party loyalty and vote Democratic. I say to you today, that they by what they did in Los Angeles on their platform forfeited their right to ask Democrats in this country to vote Democratic. [Applause.] Now, of course, there are Democrats who share their views and there are Democrats who do not. There are differences in our party, too, and we recognize them. But just let me just read two quotes to you. Here's one: "If we can prevent the Government from wasting the labor of the people under the pretense of caring for them, they will be happy." Do you know who said that? Not a Republican. That was Thomas Jefferson. Here's another one: "Liberty has never come from the Government. Liberty has always come from the subjects of Government. The history of liberty is the history of resistance. The history of liberty is the history of the limitation of Government power, not the increase of it." Do you know who said that? Not a Republican. Woodrow Wilson. [Applause.] And I say to you today that the Democratic platform, the platform and the party of Galbraith and Schlesinger and Bowles, is not the platform and the party of Jefferson and Jackson and Woodrow Wilson, as far as this country is concerned. [Applause.] I say to you today that those Democrats to believe in the great principles of their party as enunciated by the men to whom I have referred, will find a home in our party, because they will find that our platform is closer to their views than the Democratic platform. That's my proposition, and now may I have the opportunity to prove it. In the first place, let's understand exactly what we are talking about. We are talking not about the goals we seek, but about the ends we use to reach those goals. Let's all recognize right at the outset, whether were Democrats or Republicans or independents, we all want a better life for our children than we have had for ourselves in this country. We want better jobs, and better schools, and better health, and better housing, and progress. Americans are never satisfied with things as they are. We are not satisfied as far as our party is concerned and our platform. And I believe, certainly, that our opponents are not satisfied with things as they are. And so immediately your question is: What is the difference then? If everybody is for these goals of better housing, health, education, and jobs, then it's tweedledum and tweedledee - take your choice. But the difference is in means. How do you get them? And we say we know the way. We say we prove we know the way by the greatest progress and by producing the greatest prosperity that Americans have ever enjoyed under the leadership of Dwight Eisenhower, a native son of Texas. [Applause.] And we say further, that as far as our opponents are concerned that while they think they know the way, they would go back, not forward - go back to methods that have been found wanting in the past - go back to the device of turning to the Federal Government as the primary source of progress for the people. Whatever the problem is, this is usually their answer. They say the Federal Government should set up a program and then the States and the local governments and then the people should follow along. And our approach, and I submit to you the approach of millions of Democrats and independent voters as well, is just the opposite. We say the way to greatest progress in the country is not by putting the primary responsibility on the Federal Government in the first instance for all of these things that we want, but to begin with the individual and individual enterprise. [Applause.] And then turn to our local governments and our State governments; and only when individual enterprise and local government and State government can't or won't do the job that needs to be done to produce progress, then only should the Federal Government step in to do what they will not do for themselves. This is the way to the greatest progress in America. [Applause.] Now, what I have just suggested, of course, isn't the simplest way - at least not the simplest to explain. It is much easier to go before an audience, I can assure you, and say: You don't have a job - the Government's going to give you one. If your schools aren't adequate the Federal Government is going to provide it. If you don't have the right kind of health care, the Federal Government will set up a program that will do it. And you don't have to worry about it. Your State government, your local government don't have to worry about all these things; the Federal Government will do all these things. It is much simpler, I can assure you. But there are two things wrong with that theory: One, it doesn't work. And, two, the other thing wrong with it is that even if it did work, it wouldn't be good for America or good for the American people. [Applause.] Because, remember, what has made this country great, what distinguishes our civilization, is that we have always recognized the fundamental dignity and the responsibility of men and women as individuals. It is that we have not felt that the way to progress was to take responsibility from them and put it on others in the Federal Government. It is that we have respected individual responsibility. Part of the greatness of America also is that we have proceeded on the principle that the closer you can keep government to the people, the better. That's why we believe in local government, in respect for and increasing the authority and the rights of the States, rather than reducing the rights of the States and the local governments and sending it down to Washington, D.C., as they would propose. [Applause.] I could use a number of examples - I'm going to take a very difficult one to prove the point and then I'll move on to another one. I was asked last night on a program, "Meet the Press," - and some of these distinguished gentlemen of the press were questioning me very ably on it - about why it was that I voted against, as I did in breaking the tie, the Federal Government directly subsidizing teachers' salaries for elementary and secondary public schools in the United States. I was asked that in light of the fact that I have said, and I say again today, that teachers' salaries in this country are too low - in many places they're a national disgrace - and that we should do a far better job than we are doing in seeing that that level of those who spend more time with our children than we do - that the level of the salaries they receive is raised. How can I believe that and then vote against the Federal Government stepping in and doing the job. I'll tell you why. First, because I believe that there is a better way to get at this problem if the Federal Government is to move in. I happen to believe that the Federal Government's activities in this field should be limited to aid in which there can he no possibility of Federal control of the school systems of this country, and that means [applause] and that means, as we have proposed and as even incidentally some of our friends disagree, but as we proposed and as I believe, a program of Federal aid to school construction with no problem and no question of Federal control. Returning to the teacher salary problem, of course the answer there is that once you aid construction you then release the funds that can go to raising the salaries of our teachers as they should be. But primarily the responsibility must be placed upon and it must be assumed by the local communities and by the States to do this job, to provide for education, so that they can retain the control. Now why am I so concerned about control of education? It isn't that I have a great suspicion of Federal bureaucrats. They're very honest, very loyal, hundreds of thousands of them, I've worked with them; I'm one of them as a matter of fact. The point is this: The greatest guarantee of freedom is diversity of control, local control. And this is particularly true where education is concerned. And that is why I say, here is a principle - a principle that is closer to the thinking of those who are of the party of Jefferson, Jackson, and of Wilson than the platform adopted at Los Angeles. It's a principle that I support as I come before you today. [Applause.] Another point that I would like to make in this connection in regard to the last session of Congress. I noted with great interest, as you did, the progress in that session. A lot of people said: What happened to the Democratic leadership? Let me say nothing happened to the Democratic leadership. It was the same leadership they had in the previous session. [Laughter and applause.] And, incidentally, may I say that as far as that leadership is concerned it was leadership that had been very astute, and as I have said publicly, very able on many occasions in the previous session. Why was it that the leadership in the regular session of the Congress over the past 6 years which has succeeded in so many instances in getting things through, so terribly failed in this special session? Now our opponents have suggested that there's a very simple answer. They've said: The reason we couldn't get our program through was that the people didn't want to vote for it - the Democrats - because they were afraid the President was going to veto it. It wasn't any use. Well, now, just let me say this. If the Democrats in the House and the Senate felt it was a good political issue to vote for these things, why didn't they send it down to the President and let him veto it? But they didn't; despite the fact, you see, that they had a 2-to-1 majority in the House and the Senate, they couldn't even get a simple majority for the various programs in health and other fields which they had advocated. My friends, I'm going to tell you why the leadership in the last session of Congress failed. It wasn't because the leadership was changed or lost its ability. It was because that leadership had lost touch with the people of this country - the people were against what their program was, not just the President of the United States. [Applause.] And I submit to you that in the extreme position that our opponents took in their platform in Los Angeles, in the extreme positions that they advocated in the last session of Congress, that our opponents this year are out of step with the majority of the American people and I submit to you that they're out of step with a great number of Democrats, millions of them, in this country and in the State of Texas today. [Applause.] And so, what is our answer? Its a very simple one. We say look at our record. It's been a record of progress. It's been a record of moderation as far as our economic policies are concerned. It's been a record in which we have recognized and have not been afraid to defend private enterprise, where private enterprise is good for the people of this country. I'll give you an example of that. When I was in Houston a few weeks ago, I was asked on a press conference question - I was asked about the oil depletion allowance, and I indicated that I had voted for it when I was in the House and in the Senate, and that I still supported it. I received some letters after that saying, why did you do this? After all, there are only just a few of those rich Texans, and there are a lot of people who'd like to have more taxes from the oil depletion allowances. Do you know what the answer is? People who make that argument don't understand our individual enterprise system. Yes the oil depletion allowance may make some Texans and some Californians rich in the oil business, but it also makes the American people rich in the oil that is produced as a result of the incentive that is given by that allowance. This is what we must remember. [Applause.] I could go on and give other examples, but I think that I have illustrated my point. I believe in our system. I believe in the tried and true principles that are building progress on individual enterprise, on the recognition and the strengthening of local government and State government, with the Federal Government stepping in where necessary to assure that progress goes at its ultimate limits in this country. And now, if I could turn for just a moment to what I consider to be the major issue of this campaign. It is related to one I just discussed, but this one is even more important. This is what I said when I was in Indianapolis; I said it also in Baltimore; I'm going to keep repeating it from now until election day. Major issue, I said. And I suppose many of you people in this audience with children home, and the like, would say, "What could be more important than better schools? What could be more important than better jobs?" And my answer is: Being around to enjoy the schools and the jobs that we have. The major concern of Americans as they go to the polls this November must be which of the two candidates - which of the four candidates for President and Vice President - which of the two of these four offer to America and the free world the type of leadership that gives the best chance to keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. This is the great issue of this campaign. [Applause.] Now I, of course, will not be so presumptuous as to compare my qualifications with those of my opponent. That is for you to do. I can say something about my vice presidential running mate without in any way implying that his opponent does not also have ability. I will say this: I am proud that he's on the ticket with me and I think all Americans recognize that in putting him on the ticket, we put a man on that ticket who has no peer in the world when it comes to experience in sitting down and negotiating with and standing up to the Soviet leaders as he demonstrated at the United Nations - Henry Cabot Lodge. [Applause.] And I'm proud to tell you today that we will work as a team for peace; peace without surrender and for the extension of freedom. And I think I also might as well announce while I am here to my friends in Texas, that I talked to him before I came and he will come to Texas to campaign as well, during the course of this campaign. [Applause.] Now on this issue of peace there is much that I would like to say, but time will not permit it. I can only summarize my views very briefly. One, we stand, as do all Americans, for keeping America second to none militarily, economically, scientifically, in the field of education, and all the other areas of competition in the world. Military strength - and we must be willing to make whatever sacrifice is necessary to maintain the advantage that will deter aggression - military strength must be maintained. We have it today and we will continue to have it. The economic strength of this country must be maintained and we believe our economic policies rather than those of our opponents will keep America ahead of the Soviet Union as we are, and will not allow the gap to be closed, but will even widen it. We believe also that our other policies are designed to maintain the advantages that we need. In addition to this strength, we need a firm diplomacy - a diplomacy that recognizes that in dealing with dictators who are aggressive, that you do not gain by appeasing them; that you must stand firmly for principle [applause]; that you must stand firmly for principle; and while the suggestion was well intentioned I am sure, may I say referring to the President's conduct at the Paris Conference, may the time never come when a President, Democrat or Republican, feels that it is necessary to apologize or express regret for defending the United States of America. [Applause.] And by the same token, may the next President of the United States be one who, while he is firm, will be nonbelligerent; who like our President in Paris in the face of terrible insults maintained his dignity because it was the right thing to do; and maintained his dignity also because he would know that answering insult with insult might risk heating up the international atmosphere and risking war. And finally today, may I say that in addition to this military strength to which I have referred, the economic strength, the first diplomacy, we need another ingredient which is most important of all. And that is an idealism, a flaming idealism; an idealism equal to that that our founders had during the course of the American Revolution which caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago; an idealism that will recognize that freedom, and not communism, is the way to the future; an idealism which will be confident in America's strength, that will never buy the false doctrine that America is second rate in anything, and we are not in the world today. [Applause.] And now may I say to you as I conclude, will we win? Can we keep the peace? [Applause.] You, of course, are referring to the election; I'm referring to the struggle for peace and freedom. They may be related; I think they are. But in this struggle for peace and freedom, we will win and I'll tell you why. I have traveled the world with my wife, Pat, to 55 countries and I have seen in the faces of millions of people around this world - I have seen in their faces a desire for peace. We're on the right side there, and a desire for freedom in Poland and even in the Soviet Union - we're on the right side there. And if America, which has the strength and the idealism, will give the world the leadership it needs, we can build a new world in which men everywhere will enjoy what we enjoy today - peace with freedom and justice for all. This is our cause, and if you believe as I believe; if you believe that our ticket offers the best chance for the kind of leadership that America needs and the free world needs, then I say forget whether you are a Democrat or a Republican; go out and work and vote, not just for a party, but for America and what is best for America. Thank you very much.
Since this is more or less the first formal appearance of the campaign, I think it is an appropriate occasion for me to indicate to you the kind of appeal I expect to make during the course of this campaign, not only to the people of Indiana, but to the people of this Nation. Now, I realize in this great crowd today the great majority of you are Republicans. I realize, too, that Indiana has traditionally been and is now a Republican State, with a Republican Governor. To speak to this audience, perhaps the safest thing and certainly the most productive thing politically to do, for me to do, would be simply to say I'm a Republican, Indiana's Republican. Vote Republican. I do not say that today. I could say it. I do not say it for a reason. Not because I am not proud of my party and believe that the Republican Party deserves to continue to lead the Nation and the State of Indiana, but I do say it because I believe that the issues in this campaign, the decisions that the people of America will make this November when they elect a President and a Vice President are bigger than any party. They involve the future of America, and I say to all of you today, whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, don't just vote your party line. Consider the candidates; consider their experience; consider their background; consider where they stand on the great issues, and vote for them on the basis of which candidate you feel can best provide the leadership that America and the free world needs in the critical years of the sixties. This should be the test for Indiana and America today. And now, of course, the next question some might well ask: "Well, Mr. Vice President, what issue should we be thinking about? How should we judge the men for President, for Vice President, as we make this decision in November?" There are a lot of decisions I am sure will be in your minds, but I can say to you that there is one, in my opinion, that is more important than all the rest. I stand here in front of a monument which symbolizes that issue. This monument, of course, represents Indiana's affection for and respect for the men who have fought in our wars, and I say to you that the greatest responsibility of the next President and the most important issue that you should have in your minds as you vote for the next President is this: Is he qualified by experience, by background and on his stand on the great issues before the world? Is he the one that is best qualified to keep the peace for America without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great issue of our time. And, so here today, in these next 8 weeks of this campaign, I and my colleague, Mr. Lodge, will present our case to America primarily on that issue because we believe it's the most important issue. We want you to know where we stand on it, what kind of leadership you can expect from us. Let me tell you in a word, if I may why it is of such transcendent importance. I don't mean that issues such as what kind of Government will see that we have the best job, the best schools, the best medical care, social security, are not important. Oh, I know how important they are. I know how important it is for you to keep the family budget and have enough money at the end of the month to pay the bills, and I'm proud of the record of this administration in which today we have more Americans earning more, spending more, saving more, with a better life than we've ever had in our history. I'm proud of that record, and we have a program that will produce greater progress and greater prosperity on those issues for America in the future, I can assure you. But may I say it wouldn't be enough to rest our case there because, you know, you can have the best jobs, the best social security, the best medical care that we can possibly imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. And, so, I say peace without surrender, the extension of freedom, this is the great issue. Now, if I may turn to that issue for just a few moments and tell you why I believe you should consider what we have to offer and possibly make your decision for our ticket rather than the other, first, our record. You've heard a lot of criticism of the record of this administration in the past few weeks. It's appropriate that those who disagree with it criticize it. They say that we failed here and we failed there, and all other places around the world, and I can only suggest this: We have had difficulties in the past 8 years, but let's never forget that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we have ended one war; we have kept this Nation out of other wars, and we have kept the peace without surrender for America for 8 years - and we're proud of that as we stand here today. Now, of course, the critics understandably aren't satisfied with the reply I've given, and they go on to say, "But, Mr. Vice President, you forget today we are losing this struggle. America is slipping. We're second in the world. We're second militarily." You've heard that said, haven't you? "We're second economically. Our scientists are second best." A couple of high school reporters asked me before this program: "What about education in America ?" And my answer was: "It's first in the world, but there are many who will say that we have slipped behind the Soviet Union in education as well." Science, education, military strength, economic strength - we hear the charge made that America is second, and I want to answer that charge today, and I want to answer it right on the record. There are things wrong with America. There are weaknesses that we have, and it's the responsibility of the opposition and the critics to point up the weaknesses so that we can correct them, but in pointing up the things that are wrong about America, let's not overlook the things that are right about America, and when we consider the things that are right, my friends, just remember this: America is the strongest nation in the world militarily. We have the most productive economy, far ahead of the Soviet Union, with the ability to stay ahead for years to come. We have the best education in America overall and overall we're ahead scientifically. In other words, those who say that America is second best just don't know what they're talking about. And I say to you that today we can be proud that this country is first in the world in the areas that I mentioned. Proud? Yes, but not complacent. It's very easy to get complacent when you're running ahead in a race; but were in a race, as I have often said and as you know, a race in which the enemies of peace and the enemies of freedom are attempting to catch up and pass us. I have seen what they are doing. I know what their efforts are. I am confident we can stay ahead, but we can stay ahead only if we do not become complacent, only if we get the best out of the American economic system, out of our educational system, only if we always base our policies on this principle; America shall never settle for second best in anything. This will be the guideline of America. And, so, on that score, may I say, as I stand before you today, I'm confident of America's strength today. I'm confident of what America can do in the years ahead, provided that Americans know the problems, face up to the challenge, and stay true to the principles that have made this country great. Now, if I might turn to one other point that I think should be covered on an occasion like this, what should be our diplomatic policy in these years ahead? Diplomatically, the United States, as the President indicated at Baltimore this morning, must always be ready and willing to sit down at the conference table and discuss disarmament, to discuss any differences that we have with any other nation in the world, because we must work for peace constantly; but on the other hand, let's remember, as the President also said this morning, when it comes to disarmament we must never forget that we can take nothing on faith, because America must never give up any of its own strength unless we know that the potential enemies of freedom and of peace are also reducing their strength at the same time. In other words, we can have disarmament only with inspection, with the guarantees which the President has insisted upon and which we will insist upon in the next administration as well. And in the negotiations that we have, as far as these guidelines are concerned, may I suggest these other things should be remembered as well; we must be firm in our dealings with the Soviet, as I have indicated, but we must be nonbelligerent. You folks all recall the conference at Paris which Mr. Khrushchev blew up over the U-2 incident, and I'm sure some of you recall some of the criticism that was leveled at the President at the time. It came from two sides. Some people said, "Well, the President was too soft with that fellow. After all, Khrushchev had insulted him. He called him every name in the book. Why didn't he strike back at him while he was there and stand up for the prestige of the office of the Presidency?" And may I say the President was right in the way he acted. It's very easy to answer insults with insults, but when a President of the United States engages in a war of words with Mr. Khrushchev or with anybody else, what he does is to risk heating up the international atmosphere to the point where we can set off a nuclear disaster. And, so, our President and the next President must be firm, but he must not be belligerent because he must remember that in his conduct he must do nothing which would risk a nuclear cataclysm which we are trying to avoid. And then the other point that I would make, and the other extreme, is this: there are those who said, "Oh, the President - wasn't a question of his not being firm enough, but after this conference came to the point that it was about to be blown up, why didn't he try to do more to save it, couldn't he have expressed regrets? Couldn't he have apologized, for example, to Mr. Khrushchev?" And let me tell you why the President couldn't do that. First, because it wouldn't have worked. I know Mr. Khrushchev, and I know when you're dealing with a man like this that when he engages in the kind of activities he does, the wrong thing to do is to make concessions to him, because those concessions will never satisfy him. They will only lead him to demand more. And may I say, in addition to that, that, as far as the President of the United States is concerned, may the time never come when any President of the United States feels that it is necessary to apologize for attempting to defend the security of the United States. And, so, in this diplomatic arena, in the areas I have spoken about, we have difficult times ahead. We must have a President who will be firm, who will not be belligerent, and we are going to have difficulties in the years ahead, but we can avoid the twin dangers of appeasement and surrender on the one side and war on the other side if America can be strong militarily, strong economically, and strong also in our faith in our country and in ourselves. And now, if I might bring to my friends and my neighbors here in Indiana one last thought that I am confident is very close to your hearts and is also very close to mine today - how is this struggle going to come out? Are we going to be able to keep the peace? Is the cause of freedom going to be extended? My answer is: I believe that we are going to keep the peace because freedom can be extended. I believe it not only because I have confidence in the strength of America, because I believe we will have leadership which will have the wisdom to do the right thing for America, but I believe it, too, because of what I have seen around the world, among the peoples of the world, in their attitude toward America and toward the principles for which we stand. My friends, the people of the world in Indonesia and Japan, in Ghana, in Latin America - the people of the world - are on the side of peace and are on the side of freedom. Oh, you hear about American prestige being low, and there are those who will stimulate riots which would make it appear that way, but never forget the people on the side of peace. The people are on the side of freedom, and this is true not only on this side of the Iron Curtain; it's true in Poland, where I saw an example of it with a quarter of a million people on the streets, on a Sunday afternoon, shouting, "Long live America." It's true even in the heart of Siberia, where I saw people talking of peace and friendship. And my friends, if the people of the world are on the side of peace, if they are on the side of freedom, then we're on the right side because that's what we are for. And, so, I leave you today with a message of faith, not one of complacency, because the road is not easy, not one on which I can promise that our taxes will be reduced, not one on which I promise you that our defenses can come down, that America's responsibilities abroad, economically and otherwise, are going to become less, because they are not, but one where I tell you today that I know we're on the right side because the people of the world want peace. They want freedom. They want justice, and as we stand and fight for these things we can and we will prevail. And, so, my concluding remarks today are these: in this great audience are people who are Republicans who are Democrats, who are independents. I appreciate your giving me the time to speak to you as I have today about this great issue, and I say to you: consider what I have said. I say to you: think of America, think of the kind of leadership you think America needs. Think with confidence and with faith, but without complacency, and then, may I say, that if you are convinced, and only if you are convinced, that the ticket that I am proud to stand for today will best provide the leadership that America needs - then whatever your partisan affiliation, go out and practice America at its best, not just by voting, but by working and talking for the candidate of your choice, working and talking as you never have before, because the stakes are high. America needs the best decision that its people can make, and this means that all of you must participate as intelligently, as effectively as you can. If you do that, you will give an example for all the world to see of democracy, of freedom in action, and for that, may I say - for that example here today - I thank you. For the many times that I have come to Indiana and you have welcomed me and Pat, as you have today, I thank you. For that wonderful vote in the primary when we didn't even visit the State, we thank you. But, above all, we urge you: go forth today and in these next 8 weeks - if you believe in our cause, vote for it, but work for it and talk for it, remembering you're not just working for a man or for a party, but you're working and voting for America and for peace and justice for all peoples of the world. Thank you.
The critics of President Eisenhower and this administration apparently are suffering considerable strain in determining how to make their attack. Before Los Angeles they argued that even though it was true the United States had been at peace for the last 7 years, and even though the prospects for peace in the years ahead seemed bright, that the administration was at fault because it was an "uneasy" peace. This attack fell flat because it was so obviously senseless. The fact is, of course, that as long as international communism controls a large area of the earth's surface and one-third of its population, the world will be uneasy. As President Eisenhower, himself, has said: "We live in a time of peril." There is no easy way - or even no bold or imaginative way as critics like to suggest - to escape that truth. To suggest that the United States is at fault because the peace we have enjoyed for the last 7 years is an uneasy one is wholly unrealistic and the American people know it. More than that, no contrived political argument can obscure the fact that President Eisenhower has kept the promise he made in 1952 to end the war in Korea and to maintain peace with honor in the world. This attack met with no success because it was not accurate, and the public was not taken in by it. Therefore, the type of attack was completely changed. During the convention at Los Angeles, it became a slashing, broadside attack. It was repeated by speaker after speaker that the United States had no friends left. The American people not only were not fooled by these attacks, they resented them as irresponsible and harmful to our national interest. Sensing this, the opponents of the administration have now changed their attack once again. Today, they are saying that while it is true we are at peace and are the strongest nation in the world militarily and economically that we are losing our strength and prestige. This is not as irresponsible, but it is just as wrong. The United States is the strongest nation in the world economically, militarily, and morally, and we are going to stay that way. Our prestige as a nation is great. This has been demonstrated in many ways. It was clearly demonstrated by the tremendous reception given to President Eisenhower in all of the countries he has visited. Probably no person in the history of the world has been received so enthusiastically by so many persons as he has. And the tribute has been not only to him but to the United States and is proof of its prestige. The standing of the United States in the eyes of other nations in the world has been proved convincingly in the United Nations during the last 7 years. In every vote taken, when the United States was on one side and the U.S.S.R. was on the other, the position of the United States prevailed. Why then is it claimed that our national prestige has suffered? Possibly it is because it is thought that in an election year the American public can be led to believe that every time there is trouble in the world the United States is to blame for it. I do not for a moment think this will happen because I have too much confidence in the good sense of the American people. It is not the first time that politics of despair have been employed against the Eisenhower administration. Four years ago the President's political opponents sought to persuade the Nation to reject his leadership by arguing that American prestige had fallen to an alltime low. It was proved to be bad strategy then, and I believe it will prove to be bad strategy again this year. Of course, we all know that in the world situation that exists today, there will be bad news from time to time. It was not good news when Khrushchev scuttled the summit conference. It was regrettable when his agents were able to inflame Japanese street mobs against Eisenhower's visit. There has been disturbing news from the Congo; and it has been disappointing to learn that the aspirations of the Cuban people for liberty have been obscured temporarily. But it is important to recognize that if our policies are right - and I believe they are - we must pursue them with confidence. Our leadership must continue to provide the kind of national maturity which President Eisenhower has provided for the last 7 years. I do not mean to suggest that we should overlook our mistakes or gloss over our weaknesses. But if we become discouraged every time there is a problem in the world, if we thoughtlessly condemn ourselves for all the trouble from civil strife in the Congo to mob violence in Tokyo, we cannot long maintain the strength of leadership in international affairs which President Eisenhower has given our Nation. With a leader less firm and coolheaded than the President, we could easily have made serious mistakes in these past months, when Khrushchev blew up at the summit and heaped insult upon us, we could have answered in kind. Or we could have apologized to him, which would have been worse. We could have allowed our relations with Japan to become strained. We could have tried to inject ourselves into the Congo without honoring our commitments to the United Nations charter, just as Khrushchev seems to be trying to do. We could have turned Cuba into a second Hungary. But we can be eternally grateful that we have a man in the White House who did none of these things. We have met these situations as a mature nation, sure of our strength and of the rightness of our cause. We did not rant at Khrushchev and the Communists. Nor did we apologize. We did not attempt to appease him by making concessions concerning the freedom and destiny of the brave people of Berlin. We did not lose our heads over the Japanese riots. We continued to think of Japan as what it is, a strong, friendly ally with common security interests in the Pacific. What happened? The Japanese Parliament promptly ratified the Japanese-American Security Treaty; since then political candidates favorable to the treaty have won in local elections by greater majorities than in previous elections; Japanese-American political and trade relations flourish and Japan stands firm as our friend and ally in the Far East. We did not inject our way unilaterally into the situation brought about by the aspirations of the Congolese for independence, aspirations which were not backed by adequate preparation. We have cooperated with and supported the United Nations. We have not bullied Cuba, in spite of the provocation of its Communist-oriented government. We have dealt with this threat to the peace and stability of the hemisphere as we pledged we would in our solemn treaty commitments. We have cooperated with other American republics, who also recognize the threat, through the Organization of American States. Moreover, I am certain that the President has handled these situations in the very way that the American people collectively have responded to them, confidently and maturely. It is unfortunately too easy for a false impression of America to be conveyed abroad by the hullabaloo of a political campaign. We understand our politics, but some of our friends elsewhere in the world do not. I am particularly struck by the impressions of a London newspaperman who has recently been among us, traveling the length of the country, talking to as many Americans as he could meet in 6 weeks. "Experts tell us," he wrote, "that the Soviet Union is a land of promise and expanding production. Other experts tell us that America is a land of disappointment and contraction. All I can say is: Pity the country whose glories only experts can detect, and envy the country whose faults it takes an expert to discover. "So far as my eye could see, so far indeed as any normal yardstick can measure, America fulfills more of the criteria of a civilized society than any in human history."
Representative HAMER BUDGE. Now, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Idahoans, it gives me great pleasure and I deem it a real privilege to present to you the next President of the United States, the Honorable Richard M. Nixon and Pat Nixon. [Applause.] Governor SMYLIE. Vice President and Mrs. Nixon, welcome to the State of Idaho by thousands and thousands of people here at Boise Junior College gymnasium. Vice President NIXON. Thank you. Well, I first want to thank Hamer Budge for that very generous introduction and you for that wonderful welcome for Pat and for me. [Applause.] This is the end of a very exciting day of campaigning as far as we are concerned. We started this morning at San Francisco. We have been in Vancouver, Wash., in Portland, Oreg., and now in Boise, Idaho. [Light applause.] Somebody there is from Oregon, I can see. [Laughter.] But, at any event certainly there would not be a finer way to cap a day of campaigning than to have the reception we have had here starting at the airport and in the crowd along the sides of the streets as we came in and then this wonderful reception here. We thank you for that and we will remember this in all the days to come between now and November 8. [Applause.] Incidentally, a lot of people have been asking about my knee, and so I thought I would let this audience here and radio audience in on a little secret about the condition of my knee, after 2 days of campaigning. Coming into Boise, you know one of the engines of our four-engine plane went out and we came in on three engines, and I can only tell you that if a plane can run on three engines why certainly I can run on one knee. [Applause.] But I received a lot of cards and letters from around the country including quite a few from Idaho. I do not think I have had a chance to get all the answers off yet before I left because we were pretty filled up there at the office, but there is one I would like to answer tonight before this audience. This one came from Christy Johnson in Rexburg, Idaho. I will read it to you. It says:  Mr. Vice President. I fell off our haystack on to some logs and hurt my knee, too. But I don't have to stay in the hospital. All I can do is read, watch TV, and listen to the radio. That is where I beard about your knee so I know how it hurts. I am 11 years old. I was going to school before I cut my knee. I missed about a week now. And then: "P.S. - My doctor gives me a shot every day-." That is underlined. "My arms are as sore as my knee." [Laughter and applause.] Well, I just want to tell Christy if he is listening on the radio tonight that my doctor gave me a shot every day too. He didn't give them to me in the arm however. [Laughter.] I really shouldn't tell you where he gave me them but it was mighty uncomfortable to sit down for a while. For those who did write me I can assure you that everything is coming along fine and we appreciate your expression of concern. May I Say, too, that coming as I do to Idaho and being a long-suffering Washington Senator fan I want to express appreciation to Idaho for sending us Harmon Killebrew. We really needed him. [Applause.] We really needed him. You know after the first half of the season when he had only four home runs at the time of the all-star turn, he had an injury you recall, everybody said he was washed up, but the way he was going the last half of the season I just hope I can go that well in the last half of this campaign. [Applause.] And also this provides an opportunity to pay some tribute to some fine people in Idaho. First, to your Governor, Bob Smylie. He is a man who has been one of my close personal and political friends for many years. I do not need to tell you that not only is he respected in your State but throughout the Nation as one of the finest chief executives of any State is this country. [Applause.] And incidentally, I want to say with regard to Bob, too, that he was kind enough to invite me to the Idaho Territorial Centennial in 1963. Now, I am not quite yet able to say in what capacity I shall come, but I want to say that in either officially or unofficially I hope I can be there in 1963. [Applause.] And one other thing: A Governor as good as Bob Smylie with the ability that he has with his deep dedication to all the people of this State deserves to have a Republican legislature to work with him, and I hope you give him one in this election. [Applause.] Now, I also want to pay my tribute, too, and express my appreciation for the fine work and cooperation of Senator Dworshak, with whom I served in the House and the Senate, and who is running for reelection and to Hamer Budge, who has introduced me, as I indicated so graciously a few moments ago. I want to say that with regard to these two men there is much that I could say about their records, that all of you are aware, but these are things that have impressed us in the Washington scene. They are men of courage, they are men of principle, they are men that stand up and fight for what they believe in, whether you agree with them or not, you respect them for that and they are men cast in the great independent tradition of the Idaho Republicans. They certainly deserve to be sent back and we need one more Congressman with them back there and we hope you send him, the mayor of Nanta, to serve with them in the next Congress. [Applause.] I have a number of things, of course, that I want to talk to you about tonight. A great problem which you have in a talk of this type is to know which subjects to cover, the things of greatest interest, the most general interest, the things people would like to ask you about if we could have the time to sit down in your living room and prop up our feet and discuss the affairs of state in detail. So I kind of had to guess what I thought the people of Idaho, the people in this audience the people on radio, would particularly like to hear me discuss tonight, and I am going to begin by discussing what I believe is the issue of greatest general interest and certainly the issue of greatest importance, I believe, in this campaign all over the Nation. I think this is true in Idaho. I think it was certainly true in all the States I visited today from Hawaii to Maine, to Alabama and Georgia, Texas, Indiana, as well as in California, and Nevada, and all the other States that we have been to. What is that issue? The one that cuts across all the regional interests and sectional interests, the one that all people, whether they happen to be in management or labor, or whether they are on the farm or in the city, the issue that they are interested in above everything else. I will tell you what it is. It is: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency offers the best hope to Americans to keep the peace without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? [Applause.] Now, I know that if we were to have a discussion of this matter, there could be reasonable disagreement with the statement I just made. There are some people that say, "Now, Mr. Vice President, I am not so sure. What about social security? What about health? What about housing? What about jobs? Aren't all these things important?" And the answer is they certainly are. And we need programs, private and Government, to deal with these things, and to assure progress in the fields. But I am sure all of you know as I do that it is not going to make any difference how good our jobs are or how good our health programs are or how fine our retirement is going to be if we are not around to enjoy it. So the greatest responsibility of a President, the responsibility that President Eisenhower has had for these last 8 years, the responsibility that the next President will have, whoever he may be for the next 4 years, is how can he see that Americans can enjoy this prosperity which we have and will continue to have? How can we continue to keep our freedom and to keep peace throughout the world? And in discussing this issue, may I say that I think it transcends partisan consideration, as I present the case to you tonight. I do not say to those who are Republicans just to vote for me because I am a Republican and you are too; I say to all of you tonight as I discuss this issue and the others that I will touch upon, forget for a few moments whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, think of yourself only as an American citizen trying to make a decision which is best for America and then judge me, what I have to say, where I stand against that test. Do it now. Do it in the weeks between now and November 8 and do it on election day. And if you do I think the decision you make will be best for America and that is really what counts, we all will agree. [Applause.] Now, why do I believe that we, our ticket, because it is a ticket - Cabot Lodge and I - why do we offer the best hope in this field of leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? First, because of the record on which we will stand - I speak of the record of this administration and the administration of which I have been proud to be a part and of which Mr. Lodge also has been a part and has played a very magnificent part representing the United States in defending our position against the men in the Kremlin in the United Nations over the past 8 years. [Applause.] I realize that when I say this record has been an outstanding one that there are those who disagree and they have a right to and they should express their disagreement wherever they have it because the stakes are high, not individually but for America and the whole world and wherever there is anything wrong and the people think they are wrong they have the responsibility to stand up and say so, but we also have the responsibility to set the record straight where we think the issues or the facts may have been distorted by our critics and with regard to the record of this administration after you look at the criticism and consider what has been done, I say that none of the criticism can obscure this fact. That under the leadership of President Eisenhower we have gotten the United States out of one war they were in, we have kept the United States out of other wars and we have peace with out surrender today and this is a great record. [Applause.] This is a great record, a record so fine that one would be content to just run on it, to stand on it as they say. But as I have often said a record is not something to stand on but something to build on. In the world in which we live with the threat to peace not abating but continuing to grow larger because of the international movements of the Communist leaders both in Moscow and Peiping, with the kind of threats we face, we must constantly reexamine our policies, strengthen our policies, so that we can meet this threat and build it effectively. So looking to the future these are the things that I believe America can and must do if we are to have peace and have it on the basis that I have suggested is essential. First, of course, and we will all agree with this, America must have military strength which is not only second to none, but strength which, combined with our allies, is sufficient, that regardless of what a potential enemy may have, that if he should launch a surprise attack against us anyplace in the world we will have enough left to destroy his warmaking capability. Why do I set that particular standard? Not because we ever want to use that strength, because if we have that strength it means that is the greatest single guarantee that a potential enemy of peace will not use his strength against us. So, therefore, I say to you and I pledge to you that this must come first and whatever the costs may be America must maintain the military strength that will deter any potential aggressor or anyone who threatens the peace of the world. This is No. 1. I am sure all of us, regardless of party, will agree with that. [Applause.] Now, it is not just enough to have strength. You have to use that strength wisely because when you have great strength and are irresponsible in its use you will find that you can use it in such a way that it will harm your own interests and also may bring about the very things that you were attempting to avoid by maintaining your strength. So now we turn to diplomatic policy. What kind of diplomatic policy should the next President of the United States insist upon and should he follow if we are going to maintain the peace on the basis that I have suggested? That policy must, on the one hand, be firm; on the other hand, it must be nonbelligerent. Let me spell it out. By firmness, I mean that we have learned through bitter experience that where a dictator is concerned, an aggressive dictator, that appeasement or making concessions to him without getting concessions in return not only does not satisfy him, it only whets his appetite and encourages him to demand more, that that is the way to war and not to peace. So we must be firm where the men in the Kremlin are concerned or any others who are enemies of the United States, firm in standing for principle all over the world. Why are we firm? Not because we are attempting to bring about war, but again because firmness of principle is the best way to keep the peace. [Applause.] Now, we had an example of that at the Paris Conference. You will recall the U-2 flight which occurred before that Conference. Mr. Khrushchev came there determined to break up the Conference for other reasons, it was quite apparent, certainly the intelligence estimates would indicate that, but for whatever the reasons he came to the Conference determined to break it up. He insulted the President of the United States and the conference did break up. And afterward there were criticisms of the President on two scores. There were some that criticized him for being in effect too rigid and too firm. They suggested certainly with the best of intentions, that possibly he may have saved the Conference or tried to save it by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev or apologizing for the flights. I want to tell you why the President could not and should not do that. One, because expressing regrets or apologizing would not have saved the Conference; it would have only meant that Mr. Khrushchev would have demanded something more after he had received that. Secondly, may I say that a President of the United States, be he Democrat or Republican, must never feel that he must apologize to anybody for attempting to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack. [Applause.] On the other hand, there were those who criticized the President on another score. They said a President of the United States should not take insults like that. He should have answered back, given him as good as he got, and may I say that that was a temptation, I am sure, for the President, because he has quite a temper, incidentally - I have seen it in action a few times - but I can assure you that the President again set the right course on two scores. One, to have answered insult for insult would simply have been reducing the dignity of the President of the United States. [Applause.] When you are confident in the right you do not have to answer insult with insult. You answer it with the quiet dignity that the President showed on that occasion. And then there was another reason and it was this: It is awfully easy to lose your temper in these affairs, and I have had similar experience, not of course of this magnitude, but the President recognized that if he were to get down to this level and engage in a name-calling contest with Mr. Khrushchev at that time, there was a risk, a risk that you would heat up the international atmosphere to a point that a nuclear cataclysm may have come about. So again here we see the responsibility of the next Chief Executive, keeping that line between, on the one side, being firm, and on the other side, avoiding the belligerence and the bad temper which might set off the very thing that we are trying to avoid. So much for our diplomatic house. When we combine these two things what do we have? We have military strength. We have diplomatic policy. These two alone are simply enough to maintain the peace. They are not enough to win the peace and to extend the cause of freedom. Now I want to turn to the positive side of the responsibilities of the next President in this greatest function that he will have. How is he going to be able to mobilize the strength of the United States and the free world so that in the competition that is going on between the Communist system on the one side and the systems of freedom on the other side, we will prevail? The way this is done, of course, means that we must get the best, first, out of our own system, from an economic standpoint and from other standpoints that I will mention in just a few moments. But turning first, to the economic standpoint, we have heard a lot of talk recently to the effect that while the U.S. economy is presently ahead of that of the Soviet Union, that we are slipping, that we are standing still and that it is time to get going again. We have heard this charge made over and over again, and I think tonight is a good time for me to answer it again. Anybody who thinks that America has been standing still for the last 8 years, anybody who thinks that the Soviet Union is moving ahead and is going to pass us should go to the Soviet Union and then travel over the United States as I have, and you will see that the U.S. economy today is sound, and strong, productive and free, and it is the first three because it is free and we are going to keep it free in the years ahead. [Applause.] Now, does this mean that we cannot do better than we have been doing? Not at all. Does this mean that we should not try to do better than we have been doing? Not at all. We are in a race and we are confronted with men who, whatever we may think of their system, are determined and fanatical. They are working hard, they are driving their people at unmerciful pace and they are determined to catch us. They will not catch us, in my opinion, because of basic policies in their system; because of the strength of ours, but remember when you are in a race and when you are ahead, the only way to stay ahead is to move ahead. And I would like to talk for just a few moments tonight, and this is a very appropriate place to do it, as to what the United States can do to move ahead. How do we move ahead from an economic standpoint in these years? First of all, let us turn here to our great western reclamation projects, the part that they play. We have seen 8 years, as I indicated, a solid economic accomplishment under the Eisenhower administration. But in order to meet the needs of the future I think we have to step up the development of all of our natural resources. This means as a first priority target developing to the full the water, the land and the power resources with which our Western States are so richly blessed. It means the maximum national effort in which Government at all levels and also private enterprise must work closely together. The time has come, in my opinion, to put greater emphasis on new starts for sound multipurpose projects in the field of reclamation and power development and flood control. Once the need is apparent and the project is shown to be feasible then we have to follow through vigorously with engineering and construction. That has been the impetus behind this administration's constant support of such projects as Burns Creek, to push ahead on feasible starts and develop their potential. Incidentally, I might say I do not intend to forget Burns Creek now or in the future. [Applause.] I do not believe incidentally that the cause of progress is served by engaging in prolonged debate over the relative merits of Federal, public, and private development. You hear that debate. We will hear a lot of it again in the Senate and the House. What should our standard be when we consider what the Federal Government should do, what public power can do, what private power can do and private development can do? I think there is one practical question we have to ask and answer. What combination of efforts altogether will do the most efficient job at less cost to the American people? That is what we want. [Applause.] You know our Nation is very richly blessed and all you have to do is travel with others to realize how rich we are, with great river basins such as the Columbia River Basin, each of many natural resources and power potential, and our aim must be in developing resources to plan their maximum comprehensive development, working with the Federal, State, local, and private agencies. We cannot adopt a program that develops one resource in one of these projects only to destroy another. Each must be coordinated with the other for the greatest potential reclamation, power, irrigation, fish, navigation, forest, mining, wildlife and recreation. This is comprehensive development and conservation that renders the greater benefits to our people both now and in the future. And may I pay a tribute here to a man who is not running for office, one who has I think done a splendid job in this field. I think that a man who will go down in history as one who has contributed as much to the development of the West as any Secretary of the Interior in our history, Fred Seaton, who is on this platform. [Applause.] This is exactly the kind of development that he has stood for and certainly it is sound. It is something we in the West understand and will support. We have a magnificent base, incidentally, as we develop our resources in the future, to build on. Now let me turn to this charge, "But haven't we been standing still?" They say we have been standing still in our development of our natural resources and the development of reclamation and standing still for 8 years and now we have got to get going again. All right. Let's see how we have been standing still. We have asked Congress for $1,700 million for reclamation in these last 8 years. You know how much this is. That is one-third of the whole amount that the U.S. Government has invested since Theodore Roosevelt created the Bureau of Reclamation almost 60 years ago. It is more than has been invested in reclamation in any administration in history. Is that standing still? I do not think so. And I do not think the American people think so when they know the facts. The hydroelectric capacity of these plants have resulted in a one-third increase over the 1953 level, and new projects either under way or under active consideration will more than double this capacity. In addition hundreds of flood control projects have been initiated by this administration. At no time in our history have more new water projects been started than in the past 8 years. And, as a matter of fact, just so we keep the records straight, in 5 out of the last 6 years, Democratic Congresses have appropriated less than the administration has requested for reclamation. And so I say tonight. Look at the record, the Republican record, the Eisenhower record. It is not in anybody's language standing still in this field or in any other. America has move ahead and we will move even further ahead in the next administration if we are given the opportunity which you can help to give us on November 8. [Applause.] But some of you might ask, "What about the challenge of the Soviet Union?" Well, we have a tremendous lead. The Soviet electropower production in 1959 was at a level that we reached in 1943 in the United States. Today we outproduce them in electric power 3 to 1. The Soviets would have to build eight Grand Coulees a year - get that - eight Grand Coulees a year for 17 consecutive years to catch up with America's stand today in power production, and we are not going to be standing still. So those who say they are going to catch us here do not know what they are talking about. [Applause.] Now, speaking in Alaska a few weeks ago I noted that Mr. Kennedy was reported to have said, and I quote him: The tragic fact of the matter is that if Alaska still belonged to the Russians Rampart Canyon Dam would be underway today. That is a project in Alaska, of course. All I can say in comment on that statement is that this must be another case in which he has shot from the hip in the heat of the campaign without thinking through the implications of what he was saying. [Applause.] And I will only say this: We in America can be proud of our tremendous progress in reclamation and power in comparison with any country, but this is especially true if we compare it with the Soviet Union and above all when we compare what they do and what we do, let us never forget that there is a big difference. We have achieved our progress with and through freedom. We could never have achieved it the Soviet way at the cost of freedom. Let us never forget that big difference when we consider progress there and progress in the United States and other free countries. [Applause.] And so my friends, I say to you tonight that when we look at the record in this field of whether America is moving ahead economically, I have confidence (1) that we have been and (2) that we can move ahead even greater in the years ahead and maintain the advantage that we have. And so now in speaking of this great contest in which we are engaged with the Soviet Union and the forces of communism in the world we have three ingredients: (1) we are going to maintain military strength first in the world; (2) we are going to have firm diplomatic policy but without belligerency; and (3) we are going to have economic strength which will enable us to win in this economic competition that is going on. But all this is important; but all this also does not tell the whole story. We must never forget that America in this struggle and the free world in this struggle has something more to offer than military strength and economic strength and gross material strength. We must never forget that what we have to offer the world that is special and is characteristic is the moral and spiritual strength, the idealism of America that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago and still lives in the hearts of people throughout the world today. This is what we have to offer. [Applause.] How do we strengthen that moral and spiritual strength? How do we maintain that flaming idea? Oh, a President can help by the speeches that he makes and by the statements that he issues, but that must come from the hearts of the people. That must come from our educational system. We must keep it strong and effective. It must come from our churches. It must come from our families. And let us ever remember that as long as we have that strength that America will be able to give the world the moral and spiritual leadership that combined with military and economic strength will assure victory over the forces of slavery, but victory without war. Why am I so sure? Because I say to you, in conclusion, that we will win this struggle for peace with freedom because we are on the right side. I know it. I have seen it in the faces of hundreds of thousands of people in over 50 countries around the world, people who are for peace, whatever Government leaders may think, people in the heart of Siberia who say "peace and friendship" as we go by in our cars, people who are for freedom whatever their government may say, 250,000 people in the heart of Warsaw in Communist Poland on a Sunday afternoon shouting "Long live the United States" at the top of their voices with tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Because the United States was a symbol not just of military strength, not just of economic strength, but a symbol of freedom and so my friends since the people of the world want peace and freedom and since the United States is going to be and will continue to be the strongest Nation in the world we can with our great friends and allies abroad lead the world to peace with freedom and justice. This is the cause that I ask you tonight to work for. These are the things that I ask you to keep in your mind between now and election day and if you conclude that Henry Cabot Lodge and I are the ones that can best provide the leadership in this cause, then I am going to ask you not just to vote but to work as you never have before, remembering that you are working not just for men for an office and not just for a party but that you are working for America and for the cause of peace and freedom for the people everywhere in the world. This is a great cause. It is worth working for and we ask you to do it now. Thank you. [Applause.]
Your Boardman Space Age Industrial Park, conceived and carried out under the leadership of Gov. Mark Hatfield with the cooperation of the national administration, is a truly great project and a bold and imaginative approach to achieving the best use of resources for the economic development of the area. This is an outstanding example of Federal-State cooperation and is a welcome contrast to the something-for-nothing attitude which is much too prevalent these days. I have reviewed this project with some of the people in charge of our country's expanding space exploration and defense programs. They agree that the Boardman site has the characteristics desired by space technology and missile industries, and I strongly believe that it should be used for one of our major space or missile projects.
I would like to speak to you about the decision that you are going to make, with regard to the Presidency of the United States. I don't think I need tell you this is a tremendously important decision, important because you will be deciding not only the question of leadership for America; you will be deciding the question of leadership for the free world as well. I must say that, as a candidate of my party, I feel, indeed, very much aware of the responsibility that is mine to present the case of my party, but particularly the issues for which I stand, as ably as I can, as honestly as I can, so that you, the people of this State and the Nation, can make the best possible decision for America and the world on November the 8th. So, I would like to talk to you on that plane today, and that means that I am not going to begin by saying to those who are Republicans in this audience, "Vote for me because I'm a Republican and you're a Republican." I believe that when we select a President of the United States that our history tells us that the American people look not just to party labels. They look behind them. They look to the man. They look to what he stands for, and they try to determine what kind of leadership America needs, and they say, "Will this man provide the leadership America needs, and does he stand for those positions that I believe in?" So, today, to all of you here - and I realize there are Republicans here and Democrats here. I realize that there are Republicans and Democrats as well listening on television - to all of you I say: Consider both of the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency as well; consider their records; consider their backgrounds and their experience, and then on November the 8th make the decision that you feel will be best for America - not simply on a party basis, not on some collateral issue that should not affect your decision, but on the issues that will best affect the future of America and the free world We, of course, do not have time to discuss all the issues you should consider in making that decision, but there is one that stands out above all the rest, and you know, that is true in all the States I have visited. It's true in Hawaii, the 50th State, in Maine, in North Carolina and Alabama, in Georgia and in Texas, in Indiana, in Maryland, in Washington, where I was a few moments ago, and true in Oregon. The crowds will be different, the forums will be different, but I find as far as the American people are concerned the major issue of this election campaign is a very simple one, and of vital importance, and it's this: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency, by experience and background, can best lead the United States and the free world and keep the peace for America and the world without surrender? There is another issue related to that: Not only which man can keep the peace, but which man can furnish the leadership that will not only keep freedom for America but extend freedom throughout the world, because the two go together as far as freedom is concerned. Some of you may raise a question here when I say this is the most important issue, but I am sure when you consider it you will agree with me. Other issues are important - whether or not we have a good job, the kind of social security that we have for our old age, the kind of medical care that we get, the development of the right kind of school system and all the other things in which all Americans are interested, but you know, we can have the best social security, the best housing, the best jobs that we could possibly imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. So, this is the issue of our time. In discussing that issue, it would, of course, be presumptuous for me to mention my own qualifications. Those you will have to judge. You will have to compare them with those of my opponent, and I urge you to do so, but I would like to say this about my running mate. I am proud that he is on the ticket with me. He will be a partner with me, and I say that Henry Cabot Lodge is a man who is without a peer in the world today in the ability that he has displayed in working for peace and standing up against the representatives of the Kremlin as he has represented the United States in the United Nations. I look forward to the opportunity of working with him in this cause in which we all so greatly believe. Now let me turn to the things for which we stand. Why do I believe that our case is better than that presented by our opponents? First, I am proud of our record. Oh, you've heard a lot of things are wrong with the foreign policy record of this administration, and it hasn't been perfect. We've made mistakes, but let's consider what is right about it. All of the criticisms in the world can't obscure the fact that President Eisenhower got the United States out of one war, has kept us out of others, and that we have peace without surrender in America. And now what of the future? Because it isn't enough to stand on a record. You must build on it, and we must remember that as long as communism is on the loose in the world there will be a threat to the peace and security of the world, and for the future there are some simple, very important policies that we must follow. First, America must maintain its military strength at the level which it presently enjoys, second to none. Military strength so that, regardless of what a potential enemy has, if there is a surprise attack we will have enough left to knock out his warmaking capabilities. Why must we have this strength? Not because we want war but because we don't want it. I pledge to you that in the next administration, if I have the opportunity to lead it, this will be the first consideration - that America will maintain strength militarily which will deter aggression by whoever may be a potential enemy of the United States or a threat to peace in the world. Now, with that strength, we also have to have the right kind of diplomatic policy, and by that diplomatic policy I mean one that can be best described in simple terms - that is firm on principle, that recognizes that in dealing with a dictator you must never allow appeasement or concessions to be made that will only whet his appetite and never satisfy it, but at the same time a diplomatic policy that will be non belligerent. I could give you many examples to prove the point. I think the best example I can think of was the President's conduct at the conference in Paris. You remember the U-2 incident that occurred. You remember Mr. Khrushchev insulted him in words that had never been used by one chief of state against another perhaps in history, and President Eisenhower was criticized by some on both sides on two different grounds. There were some who said: "He should have answered back. He should have told that fellow off." I say the President was right in what he did on two counts: One, when you are confident of your strength, when you know you are right, you maintain your dignity. You do not answer insult with insult, as President Eisenhower did. Then he was right on another count that may have occurred to you. You know, it is awfully easy to lose your temper, to shoot from the hip, to slip from the tongue in a moment of anger, but you can't afford to have anyone who is going to be President of this United States who might do that because, may I say, in President Eisenhower's case we must remember again that it would have been easier to heat up the international atmosphere, to engage in a war of words with Mr. Khrushchev, and many people at home would have said, "Bravo, Ike, you're doing the right thing." But he was right in restraining himself, because here again he could not afford the luxury of losing his temper and running the risk of heating up the international atmosphere so that a nuclear disaster would have been set off in the process. So, in the future then, we need military strength. We need a firm diplomacy, one that is firm without being belligerent. We need also a national maturity, one in which the American people and the American Government will not fall into the error of blaming ourselves for what the Communists do, for example, stimulating riots in Tokyo, or in Caracas, or in some other part of the world, one where we're not knocked off balance by their tactics, where we maintain the strong, firm, intelligent leadership which will keep the peace, and keep it without surrender of principle or character. But these things by themselves, also are not enough. Because all of this could just hold the line, and we must not just hold the line for peace and for freedom. We must extend freedom throughout the world. We must win the struggle which all people on both sides of the Iron Curtain are trying to win and want to win - a struggle in which men can be free and live in peace with their neighbors, with justice, and we must win it without a war. To win it, what do we have to do? First of all, we're engaged in competition - not only military competition but economic competition with the men in the Kremlin. You've heard a lot about the position of the United States in that competition. Some have suggested that while we're ahead now, we're losing our grip and we may fall behind. Let me say this: I've been in the Soviet Union and I've seen the United States, and anybody who says that the Soviet is going to catch up with the United States economically just doesn't know what he's talking about They say the United States has stood still over the last 7½ years. Anybody who has said that hasn't been traveling around the United States. If you think the United States has stood still, who built the largest shopping center in the world, the Lloyd Shopping Center right here? You see, too many people who judge progress in the United States are thinking only in terms of what government does. They fail to think that in America, remember that in America, the greatest source of progress is not what government does, but the creative energies of 180 million free individual Americans. Does this mean that government has no part to play? Of course not. Government has a tremendously important part to play. Fred Seaton, the Secretary of the Interior, is sitting here and he will tell you of the progress that we have made in the past 8 years in the field of reclamation and flood control, in the case of irrigation, the preservation of our wildlife and the like, and with all the criticisms of our policies, just let me say this: One-third of all the dollars spent in the 60 years that we've had reclamation projects, we're proud to say, have been spent during this administration. There has been more progress during this administration than in any previous 8-year period in our history - and that isn't standing still, I submit to you, as far as America is concerned. When I speak of progress, it means that we must have cooperation not only with the Federal Government, but with our State and local governments. It means that America must move ahead to stay ahead, not only in the private sector, but also in seeing that government, where it can, open the way for individual enterprise to move in. What I am really trying to say is there is room for government enterprise at the State level, at the local level, at the Federal level, in reclamation, and also for private enterprise as well, and the reason why I say we will have greater progress under our administration than others, the theories advocated by our opponents, is simply this: They put too much stress upon the role of the Federal Government. We say the way to the greatest progress is to tap the best of all three, but primarily to put responsibility upon individuals rather than take it away from them, to remember that this is the way to progress. I have mentioned that if we are to maintain peace without surrender we're going to have to have a firm policy, but a nonbelligerent military strength, policy, and diplomacy; we are going to have to have economic progress with the Federal and State and local governments stimulating the individual enterprise, but we're going to have to have something else that is more important than all these, and that is, my friends, a flaming idealism, an idealism which recognizes that America has something more to offer the world than simply military strength and gross materialism, such as the Communists offer, that we offer freedom, that we offer moral and spiritual values that have made America strong from the time of our foundation 185 years ago. This we must never forget. Will we win? Is the next President going to be able, with the help of the American people, to lead the forces of freedom toward peace and toward greater freedom throughout the world? My answer is: I have faith that we will win, and I have faith, one, because I have seen America and I know its strength as I see it today, but I have faith, too, because my wife and I have seen the world. In 50 countries of the world I have seen in the faces of thousands of people a desire for peace and friendship, even in the hearts of the Soviet Union, and I have seen in 50 countries of the world a desire for freedom and a belief of freedom. There was no question but that that desire exists, not only in America, not only in the free world, but in Poland, where I saw on the faces, one Sunday afternoon, of a quarter of a million people shouting and cheering with tears streaming down their cheeks, "Long live the United States." My friends, we shall win this struggle for peace and freedom not because we are militarily stronger than the Soviet Union, as we are, not because ours is the most productive economy in the world, because it is, but because America has the moral and the spiritual strength, because our ideals, the ideals of the American Revolution, are the way to the future, not the Communist ideals which are presented in contrast to them. Finally, then, I leave the case with you. I leave it in this way. I say: Consider what I have said. Consider what my opponent will offer. Determine then, in your own hearts, whether you are Democrat or Republican, which men, which two men, can best lead the world to peace with freedom. But once you have made that determination, may I ask you to do something. Once you have made your choice, then go out and work for the candidate of your choice, and work for him and vote for him on election day, but work and vote, having in mind this major objective: That you're not just working for a man, that you're not just working for a party, but that you are working and voting for America and for all that it stands for. If you do that, America and the world will be a better place in which to live.
America has progressed over the last 8 years to unparalleled heights of solid economic accomplishment. But we cannot rest there. To meet the growing needs of an expanding population, and to meet our worldwide responsibilities, we must step up the development of all our national resources. This means, as a first priority target, developing to the full the water and land and power resources with which our Western States are so richly blessed. It means a maximum national effort, in which government at all levels and private enterprise work closely together. And by keeping the Nation's interest always foremost the economic opportunities of all our people in every part of the country will be increased. The time has come to put greater emphasis on new starts for sound multiple-purpose projects in the field of reclamation and power development and flood control. Once the need is apparent and the project is shown to be feasible, then let us follow through vigorously with engineering and construction. That has been the impetus behind this administration's constant support of projects such as Burns Creek - to push ahead on feasible starts and develop their full potential. We are interested in actual performance, not just promises. I do not believe the cause of progress is served by engaging in prolonged debate over the relative merits of Federal, public, and private development. Our standard for measuring worthwhile projects ought to be this practical question: What combination of efforts will do the most efficient job at the least cost to the American people? This Nation is blessed with great river basins such as the Columbia River Basin. They each have many natural resources and power potential. Our aim should be carefully to plan their maximum and comprehensive development - working with Federal, State, local, and private agencies. We cannot adopt a program that develops one resource only to destroy another. Each must be coordinated with the other - for the greatest potential - reclamation, power, irrigation, fish, navigation, forests, mining, wildlife, and recreation. This is comprehensive development and conservation that renders the greater benefits to our people both now and in the future. We have a magnificent basis to build on. In the face of charges that we are hearing so much these days - that America has been standing still for the last 8 years - let's look at the record:  During these years, we have asked Congress for $1.7 billion for reclamation, and this is almost one-third of the total amount the U.S. Government has invested since Theodore Roosevelt created the Bureau of Reclamation almost 60 years ago. Since 1953, under the leadership of the Eisenhower administration, Congress has authorized 53 new projects or units. Construction has been started on 44. In the half century prior to the administration only 87 projects were completed, many of those under Republican administrations. The hydroelectric capacity of these plants represents a one-third increase over the 1953 level, and new projects either underway or under active consideration will more than double this capacity. Under the terms of our Small Projects Act, more than $40 million in loans has gone to local conservation districts for projects imaginatively tailored to specific local needs. In addition, hundreds of flood control projects have been initiated by this administration. At no time in our history have more new water projects been started. As a matter of fact, in 5 out of the last 6 years Democratic Congresses have appropriated less than the administration has requested for reclamation. This Republican record is not, in anybody's language, "standing still." And in terms of the worldwide challenge, our lead is tremendous: Soviet electric power production in 1959 was at a level that we reached back in 1943. Today, we outproduce them by more than 3 to 1. The Soviets would have to build eight Grand Coulees a year for 17 years to catch up with where America stands today in power production. We will maintain our leadership by pushing current projects to rapid completion and by keeping up the pace of the last 8 years. Speaking in Alaska a few days ago, Senator Kennedy was reported to have said: "The tragic fact of the matter is that if Alaska still belonged to the Russians, Rampart Canyon Dam would be underway today." This is apparently another case in which he has shot from the hip in the heat of the campaign without thinking through the implications of what he was saying. I will only say this: We can be proud of our tremendous progress in reclamation and power in comparison with any country; but this is especially true compared with the Soviet Union. Above all, let us never forget that we have achieved this progress through freedom. We could never have achieved it the Soviet way - at the cost of freedom. I imagine the people of Alaska, who of all Americans live closest to the Soviet Union, are acutely aware of that fact. At the beginning of this century, a farsighted Republican President - Theodore Roosevelt - stimulated our citizens to support conservation programs in order that we might wisely use and also judiciously conserve these raw materials. And, if we are to provide the bastions of the free world with the weapons necessary to preserve our liberty and achieve the growth our people should have, we must renew the wellsprings of our sense of national obligation to manage, utilize, and improve our natural heritage for the benefit of future generations as well as our own.
QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, could you give us a medical report on that knee after your first day's campaigning? The VICE PRESIDENT. It stood the stress very well, and the doctor took a look at it last night, found no complications, and I expect to be able to return to full duty on it by the end of the week. Yesterday, of course, was a very light day as far as the knee was concerned. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, your Democratic opponent made this statement last night in Houston: "If the time should ever come when my office would require me either to violate my conscience or violate the national interest, then I would resign the office." I would like to ask whether you can conceivably anticipate circumstances in which you, if elected, might face a potential violation of one or the other and would contemplate the course of resigning if elected? The VICE PRESIDENT. I do not - and, as a matter of fact, I do not anticipate such a time coming in the case of Senator Kennedy. I have indicated my views on that very strongly. I respect his statement on it, and I think it should be accepted without any further questioning by people since he has stated it so categorically. I certainly don't question it, and if I don't I certainly don't feel others should raise a question about it since he has covered it so thoroughly, QUESTION. Do you support the administration's decision to limit Mr. Khrushchev to Manhattan? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. I believe that the decision of the administration to limit Mr. Khrushchev to Manhattan was dictated by Security requirements that all of us can understand. When he came to the United States previously, I don't think many people realized to what great ends we went, what means were used to be sure that there was no security risk. We also prepared public opinion, and I was among those who helped to do it, to accept his visit and not engage in any incidents. I think now, in view of the fact Mr. Khrushchev has acted in such an insulting way toward the President of the United States, in view of the fact that he does not come here, as he did previously, as trying to or at least appearing to try to be a friend to the President and to the Government of this country, that there would be a much graver risk than there was the other time. I think this is in Mr. Khrushchev's interest to limit him there. I regret that it is necessary. I think any visitor to this country should have the run of this country whenever possible, but I would say in the case of Mr. Khrushchev - and, of course, as you know, Mr. Kadar of Hungary is also placed under the same limitation - that to allow them the run of the country would be irresponsible as far as they were concerned. There would be too grave a risk, which in a nonpolice state we could not afford to take. For example, if I might add, with regard to Mr. Kadar, on Mr. Khrushchev's previous visit, one of my major concerns - and I talked to the security officers at length - this is with regard to Hungarian refugees. You would be interested to know we had privately - and I participated in some of them - several meetings with the key groups of Hungarian refugees in this country, asking them to use their influence against demonstrations while he was here. Now, at the present time, with Mr. Kadar coming here, I don't think that you would be able to control that situation. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, some of us noticed yesterday that you campaigned the whole day without mentioning the words "civil rights" either in Indianapolis or here in Dallas. And, though you had mentioned several other of the great domestic issues, just in passing at least, we were wondering, sir, if there is any possibility that you have come to the conclusion that this issue is not as great as some of the other issues on the domestic scene, or was it just one of those things? The VICE PRESIDENT. My recollection was in my speech last night in San Francisco, while I did not include the issue of civil rights in the very brief excerpts that I passed out, that I made a very strong plea for all Americans to do their personal part in the fight against bigotry, against racial and religious prejudice in the United States. As far as mentioning it in each speech, obviously, you can't cover all subjects in each speech, and I did not feel that yesterday was a time that I could work it in with all the other subjects that I had to cover. I might point out, incidentally, that, as far as Dallas, Tex., is concerned, the civil rights issue there is not nearly as controversial and it is not nearly as important that it be mentioned as it was in Birmingham, Ala., in Atlanta, Ga., and in Greensboro, N.C., which are so-called Deep South States in which the issue, of course, is raised. I might add, incidentally, that I am planning several statements on civil rights, including a major one in the course of the next few weeks, in which it will be a major portion of one of the speeches I make. I don't believe that the issue is a minor issue. I think it is one that is inter-related with the great issue, the one that I have described as the great issue, the issue of the extension of peace with freedom throughout the world because, unless the United States can present to the world, particularly that portion of the world where the battle for freedom and peace is going on, the so-called uncommitted countries, an image of the country in which we fight prejudice of all types and stand for the individual dignity of people, regardless of their backgrounds, we cannot successfully fight the battle for peace and freedom. Since I believe that, I will of course emphasize this issue accordingly. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, isn't it a fair assumption, however, that since people in the area of Dallas conceive of the Federal aid to education bill as largely an attempt to force integration upon them, that your remarks on that bill, without reference to civil rights, might be interpreted there as some type of endorsement of their view? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, if it was, it was unfortunate because it was not intended so, and if you heard my remarks - of course, you were there - you will know that I did not take the position that Bruce Alger takes on Federal aid to education. I indicated clearly that I favored Federal aid for school construction, with no Federal control - and, incidentally, that is the position taken by most of those supporting Federal aid for school construction, because they realize that once you attach to any Federal aid bill a Federal control amendment such as the Powell amendment, you defeat the Federal aid bill as well. That is the administration's position. It is also my position. And if I was misinterpreted it was not intentional on my part. QUESTION. I believe it was two days ago that Senator Kennedy said that the cut-off date in discussing religion should be right now, and I noticed yesterday that he commented yesterday at some length on the religious issue. Would you comment on that? Do you consider that a breach of the idea of not discussing religion further? The VICE PRESIDENT. I don't think it would be helpful if I did comment on it. Senator Kennedy is, of course, in a different position from what I am, and I understand that. I do feel, as I have indicated, that every time the candidates discuss it they make what would otherwise be a 3d-, or 4th-, or 10th-page story a 1st-page story. His position is different, and I don't know what I would do if I were in his position. I do know what I will do in my position. I am not going to add any fuel to this discussion. I covered it completely, categorically, on several occasions, the last time on "Meet the Press" on Sunday, and, so, therefore, I think that for me to comment even on this question would be a breach of my own conviction that I can best serve the cause of keeping this issue out of the campaign by not commenting on it further myself; but I will not criticize Senator Kennedy for what he has said. That's his decision. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, where are you going to make this major civil rights speech? The VICE PRESIDENT. We haven't selected the place as yet. We have a number of different speeches that we want to make. As you know, our practice, for the purpose of the traveling press, is to attempt to give you each day one major subject for your emphasis on that day, and for my emphasis as well. The speech is already prepared. I finished it while I was at the hospital last week but I have not yet determined what would be the best day to release it. QUESTION. Is it your thinking to deliver it in the South, in the border area, or--- The VICE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided which area it will be in. I will say this: As has been my practice, I will discuss civil rights the same both North and South, as I think most objective observers agree I have. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, on the domestic scene, local domestic scene, can you tell us what you foresee as a revival for the gold-mining industry? The VICE PRESIDENT. I will be very frank to have to admit, while there was a time when I was quite familiar with the problems with regard to the gold-mining industry and could have commented upon it with some understanding, that I have not had an opportunity to be briefed on it thoroughly before this press conference. I do intend, for your information, incidentally, to have a discussion with Secretary Seaton during the course of this trip, and if on my next trip to California you would again ask me that question I would be glad to comment on it then, or better still, if you would like to drop me a note within the next week or so, I might be able to give you an answer on it. I cannot comment on it with any degree of understanding today. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, for the benefit of the rural press, when will you be back in California? The VICE PRESIDENT: I don't expect to be back in the rural city of San Francisco for some time - and, incidentally, that is much to the disappointment of the traveling metropolitan press, I am sure - but my next trip to California, I believe, is early in October. I will be in California on at least three other occasions that is, I will come into the State on three other occasions campaigning intensively in this State, but I do not have the exact date of the next trip. It just escapes my mind. It's quite early in October, I am sure. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I have a double-barreled question. One, do you plan to do any whistlestopping in California, by train, and do you agree with what Senator Kennedy was saying all the way down the State, that is the State which may be decisive in the election? The VICE PRESIDENT: The answer to the second question is, of course, yes. It is a battleground. All the polls and all the political prognosticators agree that this is one of the closest States and also is one of the most volatile States. It swings with whoever happens to be here last, to a certain extent. That's one of the reasons he will be here quite often and one of the reasons I will be here quite often. As far as the whistlestopping by train is concerned, I have studied the possibilities in California and I have reached the conclusion that I can better get around this State by propstopping with a smaller airplane, a Convair, and by motorcading the metropolitan areas. So, we will do both of those. We will motorcade and propstop, but I will not use a train. A train just doesn't cover enough territory fast enough in the State of California. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, we would like to know if you could comment on youth taking an active part in political campaigning? The VICE PRESIDENT. I would be glad to. One of the most encouraging aspects of this campaign has been that young people, even more than in 1952 and 1956, are taking an active part. This is true not only of the young voters, those 21 and above, but it is also true of the teen-age young people who I see in great evidence at our rallies, and I understand they are also in great evidence at Senator Kennedy's. I feel it is healthy and constructive and I will just conclude my remarks by saying: With all the talk about what is wrong with youth today, the young people of America are infinitely more sophisticated and have a great deal more understanding about political affairs and international affairs than was the case when I was in school, for example, quite a few years ago.
I am proud and happy to represent the President of the United States on this inspiring occasion. There is nothing I can add to his wishes for a bon voyage to this gallant ship and its devoted staff on a mission which is unique in history. Within a few days you are steaming westward to the 3,000 islands of the Indonesian Republic, thousands of miles across the Pacific, to spread medical knowledge and help train the doctors and nurses of that great and friendly nation to provide for their urgent health needs. Those needs can be realized most easily when we remember that in Indonesia there is only one doctor for every 71,000 people, while we, with one for every 750 Americans, complain of a doctor shortage. No one who has traveled through the emerging nations of the postwar world and in the Americas, as I have done on various missions of friendship for President Eisenhower, can fail to note that the greatest single need of hundreds of millions of human beings is for better health and hospital facilities. When you witness the terrible burden of curable disease and preventable suffering which afflicts so much of the world, it is a challenge to our deepest instinct for service to mankind. Disease and malnutrition know no politics. And I think that every American should be proud today of the SS Hope, as a symbol of the very best in the American spirit. I do not believe that in any other nation would there be found this kind of cooperation between government and citizens in organizing this expeditionary force for health and healing. The Navy has made available one of its hospital ships from the mothball fleet. Under the inspired faith and leadership of Dr. Walsh, the American people - business concerns, labor unions, charitable foundations and private citizens - have contributed the millions of dollars needed to refit and operate this floating medical center and training school. The finest kind of medical, dental, and nursing staff has been recruited from volunteers, with warm cooperation by the professional associations involved. This is not a Government project, except perhaps in the sense that you are steaming westward on the invitation of the Indonesian Government. Here is private philanthropy and good will working together on the people-to-people basis which, as President Eisenhower has stated in his letter, is the best assurance of world peace. All this has been accomplished in less than 2 years from the time Dr. Walsh first had the idea for the Hope project - and believe me, for Washington that is almost a record. Here is America's answer to the hate, fear, and suspicion spawned by predatory communism. Let us never forget that when the Communists completed their conquest of mainland China, the first targets marked for destruction were the schools and hospitals established by generations of devoted missionaries and western philanthropy. Not until the Reds had seized these humanitarian institutions and had jailed or deported the missionaries of every faith, did the rulers of China feel free to preach their gospel of hatred against those whose love and generosity had tried to bring faith and healing to the Far East. So the good ship Hope is more than just a program for medical teaching and training where they are most needed - in Indonesia, in Vietnam, and wherever else it may be invited to serve. It is a reaffirmation of our faith in human kindness and renewal of an image of America that stands close to all that is good, decent, and enduring in our free way of life. I hope that in the near future there will be, not one but an entire American white fleet of mercy vessels on the seven seas, standing ready to serve wherever the need may come. May the Hope be the flagship of a new kind of navy - a navy which will really wage peace by waging war against needless suffering and disease: the ancient enemy of all mankind.
Mr. Mayor, Governor and Mrs. Hatfield, Secretary Seaton, all the distinguished guests that are on the platform, and our friends in Vancouver. This for both my wife, Pat, and me is a first and a very unusual first because actually we have been in most of the cities of the West and, as a matter of fact, of the United States, but this is the first time we've been to Vancouver. We hope that it is not the last time in view of this wonderful welcome that you've given us. We thank you for it. [Applause.] We want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for the arrangements that were made as we came into the city, the flags that were on the streets. We certainly could not feel more at home and we only regret that we have kept you waiting because we understand according to the Oregonians that we had a little California weather at the airport today which delayed us a bit landing. But you have been patient, you are standing here now, and I do appreciate the opportunity to talk to you for just a few moments about a decision that those of you at least of voting age are going to make, a decision about the future of your country, of our country. You will make it on November the 8th. Now, as I look at this audience I realize that there are some here who are members of my party, there are some who are members of the other party. There are some who are perhaps what we call independent voters who have declined to state, as they have a right to do, what their political affiliation is. But all of you are American citizens. You have the opportunity on November the 8th, election day, to participate in the decision as to what leadership America should have in these next four years. Now, in talking about that leadership, I'm talking about its relationship to you. I would like to do so in perhaps a way that you might not have expected. It would be very easy for me simply to stand here and to say I am a Republican. All the Republicans ought to get out and vote for the Republicans and the Democrats likewise because I'm a Republican, and that would be it. I do not present the case that way. I'm not going to ask anybody here to vote on November the 8th because of the party label that I happen to wear which may happen to be the same that you have. I think that when we select a President - this has been the history of our country - we think not just of our party but we think of the issues for which the man stands. We realize that in the history of our country some of our great Presidents have been Democrats and some have been Republicans and the decision of the people must be made on the basis of what is best for America. I would like to present our case, the case of our ticket, to you on that basis today. What is best for America? Now, in answering that question may I say that I think we have to consider first what are the issues that you should think of as this election approaches. Of course there are many issues that concern you, many issues involving, for example, the future of this very area - how we can get more jobs and more business and more productivity in this and other parts of our Western States. Those are positions which I have discussed and will continue to discuss during this campaign. But if I were to be asked the question what is the issue which wherever you are in the United States - North, East, South, West - in the oldest State, Delaware, or the newest State, Hawaii, if you were to go to every State in this Union and talk to crowds like this in this square, what would be the question that would unite them all, the one they all think about. What is the most important question that all Americans must decide in selecting a President in this critical period? I'll tell you what it is. Whether it's in Dallas, or Indianapolis, or Baltimore, or San Francisco where we visited yesterday, whether it's in Vancouver or Portland, or Boise where we will be today, the question is the same. It is - which of the candidates for the Presidency, which of the two candidates - the Presidency and the Vice Presidency - in either ticket can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great issue of our time. [Applause.] You see it here on this monument. I read: "In memory of the faithful service in World War II lest we forget." Korea, World War I, World War II. The question - will we have world war III - and the question - what can we do to avoid that and avoid it without surrendering principle or territory - this is the major qualification that you must look for in the next man who may be President of this country. So I'd like to discuss how I believe about that issue so that you can make that decision having in mind my views and comparing them with those of the man who'll be running against me. Let me say right at the outset there is no question about what all of us want. We agree, whether we are Democrats or Republicans, that we want peace without surrender, that we want progress and prosperity for America. The question is how do we get there. So in presenting our qualifications and our case to you may I say first of all I am proud of our record. Oh, you've heard criticism of President Eisenhower's administration in this area of foreign policy over the past 8 years but I submit to you that on the record it's one that the American people will be forever grateful to him because he got the United States out of one war, we've been kept out of other wars, and we do have peace today without an American boy fighting any place in the world. We're proud of that record. [Applause.] We're proud of that record but we just do not stand on it because a record is not something to stand on. It's something to build on. And we must remember that there are threats to the peace of the world as long as the Soviet leaders are engaged in their aggressive tactics throughout the world. There will be problems whether they may be in Japan, in the Congo, in Cuba, or in Berlin or any other part of the world. So the United States must continue to build its strength, its military strength, its economic strength, its moral and its spiritual strength, if we are to maintain this peace, this peace which we treasure not only for ourselves but for others throughout the world. So I say to you today that we stand first for keeping America strong militarily. Why? Not because we want to use that strength in war but because we want to avoid war. And we know that as long as we have military strength we will never launch it against anybody else in aggression. We know that the purpose of our strength is to keep any potential enemy or aggressor from starting a war. And I will assure you and I pledge to you that the strength of the United States militarily must come before every other consideration. We must be first in the world and never settle for second best in this area. [Applause.] Now, combined with that military strength we also need the right diplomatic policies. I'd like to have the time to discuss them in detail but I will just touch upon perhaps two phases of those policies which will illustrate my point. The great problem is to remember that we are going to have difficulties and that we have to avoid two dangers. On the one side we've got to avoid belligerence; on the other side we have to avoid appeasement. The President showed us what to do at the conference in Paris when in the face of Mr. Khrushchev's insults he, one, avoided answering in kind which would have reduced the dignity of his office and which also would have run the risk of heating up the international atmosphere so that we might have risked a war, and on the other side he avoided the other danger of expressing regrets for attempting to defend the security of the United States. So he followed the line that was correct and as a result, the position of the United States was maintained and our brave friends in Berlin still have their freedom today. I could give you another example from a more personal standpoint that will illustrate the problems that we have in dealing with those who oppose us around the world. Mention was made in introducing my wife Pat of her travels about the world. And, incidentally, I remember the lady who introduced her said she gets knots in her stomach when she was introducing her. I want to tell you that of all the speeches I've made, hundreds of them, thousands of them, I still get a knot in my stomach or the speech isn't any good. So any of you that plan to make a speech, don't ever worry about it. [Laughter.] Now in thinking of Pat, I recalled an incident which occurred in Venezuela 2 years ago. On this occasion you may have read that there were mobs in the streets. Before we got downtown in Caracas that day we arrived at an airport, not with the friendly kind of a welcome that we had at Portland International Airport today, but we were welcomed by a shouting mob of Communist-led individuals who were there to embarrass us. And we had to walk from our plane underneath the balcony in order to get to our cars. As we walked underneath the balcony all of these people were on the balcony and a whole rain of spit came down upon us as we walked under the balcony. Well I first thought it was rain until I looked up. Then I looked at Pat's suit, a pretty new red suit, all covered with spit from top to bottom. You can imagine how I felt. I was angry and when I got out of that airport into the car I can assure you that it was difficult to restrain myself from not letting go and hitting the first one of the Communist leaders that came into sight. The same was true when we got downtown. It would have been a mistake, of course, to lose my temper. Then later in the day we met with a group of Venezuelan leaders who came to greet us. I was still angry and I was tempted to blame them, the Venezuelan leaders, the non-Communist leaders, for not providing the protection that they might have. But if I had done so, that would have been a mistake. Do you know who one of those leaders was? The present President of Venezuela, Mr. Betancourt, a man who is firmly on the side of the United States, a man who is against the Communists, and a man who at the present time is standing with us in our policy of the Organization of American States with regard to Cuba and in other areas. Now I do not give this illustration to point up any personal abilities on my part. I only give it as an illustration of what leaders in the United States and the free world must always remember. We must never blame ourselves or our friends for what our enemies do. We must not blame, for example, the millions of good people in Japan for what the rioters did. We must not blame the good people in Venezuela, and the majority of them are on our side, for what the Communists did. Because the moment we do this, the moment we lose our temper, we hurt our cause, we risk the peace of the world also, in some instances, in the process. So much for that to illustrate that point. [Applause.] May I go to just two other points and I will finish? I have mentioned that the United States must be militarily stronger than any other nation, that we must be firm in our diplomacy without being belligerent, and that with these two twin policies we can keep peace, keep peace. It will be uneasy peace because the Communists will make it uneasy. But we can keep the peace. But that isn't enough. In addition to keeping the peace we must work to extend freedom throughout the world. We must remember that competition is going on between two systems - the system of communism on the one side, the system of freedom on the other. And the United States must not fall behind. Not only not fall behind, we must stay ahead and we are ahead today I can assure you - economically, scientifically from a standpoint of education, and every other area in the world today. But in order to stay ahead we must get the most out of our American economy. It means developing the great resources of our West through our reclamation programs, our irrigation programs, the development of fish and wildlife, all of the others to which we have referred and with which you are familiar. It means the Federal Government doing its part, for example, where appropriate - through an urban renewal project like the one you have here in Vancouver. But here is where we have a difference with our opponents. It doesn't mean saying the Federal Government has the primary responsibility for taking care of the people, for producing progress. It means extending and increasing opportunities for 180 million free American citizens to make their maximum contribution to progress in this country. [Applause.] This is the way to progress for America. And because the program that we stand for has been built on this principle, that's why we've had tremendous progress in these last 8 years. Built more schools than in any 8-year period of the history of this country. Built more hospitals. We have seen more development in the field of reclamation than in any 8-year period in the history of this country. All of these things accomplished by recognizing the fundamental principle that the Federal Government has a responsibility but that that responsibility is not to supplant individual responsibility and State responsibility but to supplement it so that the individual does everything that he should, and the State and local government does everything that they can and will, and the Federal Government moves in where the other two cannot or will not do the job. Then finally my last point. I have been talking about military strength, economic strength. These would seem to be primarily important but more important than these two is the kind of strength mentioned so eloquently in the invocation today. I often say to the Chaplain of the Senate, Dr. Harris, that his invocation is usually the best speech made in the day in the Senate. And I can say today that perhaps the remarks in this invocation were those that will be longest remembered by this audience and properly so. But let me tell you that, as we consider the cause of peace and freedom for the United States and the world, never forget this - our military strength is important. Our economic strength is important. But we have something more to offer to the world than just that. We have a moral and spiritual heritage that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago and distinguishes America in the free world today. And we must strengthen the moral and spiritual heritage of America if we are to lead the free world to peace and freedom in the years ahead. [Applause.] Never forget this if we are to be free. [Applause.] That, of course, is where all of you come in. Oh, it would be easy to say elect me President and I will do all these things for you. I will provide the great new leadership that America needs. But you know where greatness comes in a leader. It comes from the people. A leader can only be as great as the people are great. And this country has been great because its people have been great. So I say to you - be worthy of America in these critical years. Whether the world has peace and freedom depends upon not just the leaders but upon 180 million Americans doing their best for America, seeing that our moral and spiritual strength is at its highest, seeing that our young people have the greatest opportunity for education, doing the best that we can at our jobs whatever they may be, doing our best to see that America is a shining example of tolerance, of recognition of religious and racial tolerance, of recognition of the individual dignity of every man and woman in this country regardless of his background. All of these things you can do - Government can only help. So as I close, may I give you a practical example. This is an election day here - primary election day. And if you haven't voted, when I finish go and vote. Select the candidates of your choice and once you have selected them, work for them - not just vote for them - work for them. And if you do that you will be making America the kind of a country she ought to be. And what about November the 8th? What is my message to you? I simply say this. I have presented my case, at least a part of it. You will have the opportunity to hear me and my opponent in the future. I will say to you only this. After you have heard us both, go to the polls and vote. Work for the man of your choice. And whatever decision you make - the majority make, that will be best for America. But if you fail to work, if you fail to vote for what you believe, then America will not have made the decision that the world needs and that our country needs. So I thank you for coming, for listening as patiently as you have. And looking out across this crowd, seeing people young and old listening so intently, standing here, certainly inspires in me faith in our country, in our ideals, and in the future. And remember - we're on the right side because we're on the side of peace, freedom, justice for all people - not just for ourselves. This side will prevail if we do our job. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Approval by President Eisenhower of the new law providing additional medical care for some 2½ million people 65 and over, and a new medical care program for millions of others, is an important step forward toward a new life in America. As soon as the States take full advantage of this measure, no older person will be deprived of medical care because of lack of financial resources. This law puts those who have a deep concern for the health problems of the aged in a position where they can demand that mere talk be replaced by action. I hope that all State Governors will move with the least possible delay to bring these programs into full effect. This sensitive response of government to critical human needs is in the tradition of our free system. A great merit of it is that it directs Federal help where it is most needed - to unfortunates on public assistance rolls and to the low-income elderly who are unable to meet major medical expense. But it is important for all of us to realize that, helpful though this forward step is, it is only that - a forward step. Beyond the reach of this measure are needs still unfulfilled. As stated during the Senate's consideration of this legislation, it is not enough to assist in this area only after disaster strikes. Responsible government will see to it that all older citizens are so positioned as to be able to protect themselves in advance against the economic burden of serious illness - through their own efforts and resources where possible, but supplemented as necessary by government. This need, still unmet, requires priority attention by the next Congress. The program must be a voluntary one, avoiding compulsory medical care as well as compulsory participation in medical care programs. It would support rather than discourage private medical insurance efforts. And it should make certain that Federal assistance is joined with State and individual effort and is kept related to genuine need. By contrast, the program advanced by the opposition is a compulsory program. It is a program operated by the Federal Government instead of the States. It is a program that gives unneeded help to the wealthy. It is a program that excludes at least 3 million people 65 and over with incomes of $2,000 a year or less. The August session of Congress demonstrated very clearly that, even with a 2-to-1 majority, opposition leaders cannot obtain approval of their extreme compulsory program. It is equally clear from the August session that those leaders cannot persuade many in their own party to support the compulsory approach. When, therefore, they hold out to our senior citizens that a compulsory program would be preferable, the proposal is not only a wrong one - it is also an empty one. It represents words, not action. Let us, therefore, build realistically, as I have proposed, on the advance made by this new law just approved by the President. This is the way for us to make real progress in dealing with the human problems, the kind of progress which the whole world associates with free America.
Gov. JOHN F. DAVIS. North Dakota is again honored to have as our speaker a statesman, a national leader, the Republican Party standard bearer, who will, I forecast, be the No. 1 citizen of the United States. [Applause.] I would like to first commend and congratulate the university and the Republican Party, Young Republicans, who planned and executed this meeting here at the University Field House, chairmaned by Tom McElroy and Dr. Penn. They have done an excellent job and certainly they are gratified by your response in coming here this afternoon for this significant meeting. It is truly an occasion to have the Vice President come to North Dakota so shortly after his illness and ailment that confined him to a hospital. I should like him to know how we feel about our zestful, healthy climate - providing good health and long life - for our citizens; and while he will be exposed to it for only a short time, I assure him it will be beneficial and healthful - I know for at least 60 days! [Applause.] These are days of decision for Americans - for soon we will select a new leader of our Nation, the next President. The responsibility for each citizen is great, and it is truly a rich experience for us to have our great Republican candidate and his very gracious and charming wife as our guests for this occasion today. This man is fitted to be President by experience, which came from his service in his home State of California's Legislature; in our Congress; and in the very high executive position as Vice President of our great Nation; by his leadership which he has displayed on so many, many occasions; by his temperament, which gives him this understanding of the feel of America; by his background of typical Americanism; by his very deep and abiding faith in the good life that has been provided in America under our principles and under our ideals. Here is the man to support; here is the man to work for; here is the man to vote for. It is an honor for me to present the Vice President of the United States, our next President, Richard Nixon and his very charming wife, Pat. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. Governor Davis, Mr. President, my colleagues from the House of Representatives, my colleagues who are also candidates, future candidates [applause], members of the faculty and student body of the University of North Dakota and my friends in North Dakota; this is the first opportunity that my wife, Pat, and I have had to visit a university campus since the nominating convention in Chicago. And after this wonderful reception, this demonstration, I can only say I hope it isn't the last - if this is any indication of how you are going to react. [Applause.] I want you to know that it is always a great challenge and an inspiration to speak before an audience which is composed not only of those who are active workers in my party, but also those who are future voters or just entering voting age. And certainly the opportunity presented today to speak at this great university, to this audience is one that to me is a challenge and one that I deeply appreciate. I want you to know, too, how much I have been moved by the introduction that Governor Davis gave a moment ago. As a matter of fact, I was listening over there by the door, and my reaction was that after that introduction I might as well not make a speech; he had done very well by me already. I can only say that to live up to the very generous things that he said would be most difficult, indeed. But in return, may I say that my regard for him is well known, and yours as well is well known. I also want you to know how very proud I am to be on the platform with some of our other Republican candidates and to have our candidates for the House, or the State legislature, represented both on the platform and in the audience. I will not mention them specifically by name because the list is a bit longer than time will permit, but I will only say this: They are outstanding men, I've had an opportunity of working with some of them in the Congress, I have known a number of them, and I can certainly wholeheartedly commend them to you as you make your decision on November 8 - both at the State level and at the Federal level, or the Congress of the United States. I know from having previously visited North Dakota and other States that you like to make up your own minds as to how you're going to vote. And I'm not going to tell you in this respect except to indicate my own strong personal affection and admiration for these men with whom I'm proud to run on the same ticket. May I also say at this time that I am sure that in this audience are a lot of future candidates - both Republican and Democratic. I am sure - since about 30 percent of the audience consists of students at the University of North Dakota - that I am speaking probably to future Governors, future Senators, perhaps Congressmen, maybe a Vice President or two - who knows? But, in any event, the advice that I'm sure most of you would like to have from me is: If you want to enter politics, what can I best do? Now the advice I'm going to give is not going to be the usual advice. I feel myself that the best thing that you can do while you're in the university is to concentrate on what I would call the humanities, very broad background in all of the great culture and tradition of our civilization and our society. I believe that specialization in political science is important, but I believe that far more important while your minds are so young and while they can undertake to understand new ideas so readily, far more important is to study the humanities - history and literature - all of those things which will later serve you in such good stead. Now, from a very personal standpoint, I can give you the advice that was given to me by my professor of contracts when I entered law school in the first year. We were a lot of young lawyers, at least potential young lawyers, and our first day in class, and he looked over the class, all the Phi Beta Kappa keys and other bright young men and women there, and he said: "Now, young men, I have some advice for you as to your future, if you want to be a success at practicing law. I would suggest that you marry for money and practice law for love." [Laughter, applause.] Now, I did that; incidentally [laughter], my wife was teaching school when I married, and she made more money than I did practicing law. Of course, there was some love, too, I can assure you, but, in any event, that advice is something I will pass on to you for whatever it is worth. Now, if I may, I would like to talk to you for a few minutes about the decision you will make on November 8 at the presidential level. In talking about that decision, I want to present the case in perhaps a way that is different from what you might expect. It would be very simple and very easy to present the case for the election of a Republican President in a State like North Dakota, which has a Republican tradition, by simply urging that you vote your party affiliation: Vote Republican. It would also be easy to make the appeal to you - particularly on sectional grounds - with speaking particularly about the issues that you are primarily concerned about right here in this State. To talk to the farmers, if we thought that the farmers were predominantly those who might be in this audience, or to talk to any other group in society that might be represented. I'm going to do neither of those things today. I'm going to present this case in a way that I think it properly should be presented - not only here but throughout America. I happen to believe - and I'm sure you will agree - that when we elect a man as President of the United States, we must not think of our personal interests, we must not think of our own little group, our own section of the country primarily; we must not think just of our own party and our party label; but we must think of the whole Nation, of the national good. And whoever is elected President must be able to represent the whole people with obligations to no particular section, to no particular group within the society, so that he can stand for all of the American people and represent America at its best both at home and abroad. And so today I'm going to ask everybody here, whether you're Republicans or Democrats, for a few minutes, to forget your party affiliation, to think of the Nation, and to consider what I have to say by asking and answering this question: What leadership does America need in these next 4 years? Leadership for what? What is the most important issue? And on that I will say here what I have said in every State I have visited so far - from Hawaii to Maine, to Alabama, to Georgia, to California, to Oregon. I will say that I find there is one great issue that cuts over all the rest; it is the overriding concern of all people in this country, whether they're farm folks or city folks or management or workers, whether they live in the North, the South, the East or the West. And it is this: It is the concern that America must find a way through its leadership to keep the peace without surrender in the years ahead and extend the cause of freedom throughout the world. [Applause.] Now I know I don't have to do any convincing to the young men in this student body who will be entering the armed services - to prove to you that that's the overriding issue. And I know that as far as all the rest of you are concerned that you will agree with me when I say that, while we are tremendously concerned also about having a kind of government in which we have good jobs, good income on the farm, in which we can have good security for our old age, better health, better education, better institutions like this - while we're concerned about all these things, we all know that all of the solutions to our domestic problems aren't going to be worth anything unless we're around to enjoy them. So the first step you must have in your mind - as you appraise the qualifications of the candidates for President and Vice President - is this: Which of the two can best provide the leadership which can keep peace and extend freedom? Now, obviously, in presenting my case to you I cannot cover all of the ramifications of that issue - in this or any other one appearance. I would like to touch some of the highlights, and I would like for you to consider them with me, if you would, for a few moments. First of all, as we consider the future of America in the world, as we consider the dangers which confront us, we must look at our past record, and I say in presenting our case, the case of Ambassador Lodge and myself, that, first, we are proud of our record, we are both members of the Eisenhower team. For 7½ years we have worked - he as Ambassador to the United Nations and I as Vice President - under the President of the United States in this administration. And so, as far as this record is concerned, we are part of it; we are proud of it. Now, obviously, our opponents have other views. They're entitled to those views, and they should express their criticism just as constructively and earnestly as they can wherever they think we've been wrong. But I would say that after reading some of the criticisms that have been made of our administration's foreign policy over the past 7½ years that I think that we all must not overlook this singular fact: that the criticisms cannot obscure the fact that the policy has been overall successful. Why do I say successful? [Applause.] Summed up in a sentence, I say successful because when we came into office in 1953 the United States was at war. We have ended one war; we have avoided other wars; and today we do have peace and we have it without surrender of principle or territory, and this is a magnificent achievement for which Americans will be eternally grateful to Dwight D. Eisenhower, the President of the United States. [Applause.] Now, I can assure you it's a great temptation for any candidate when you have a record like that, which an audience obviously approves - as you do - simply to stand on it. But a record, of course, is not something to stand on; it's something to build on. And this is particularly true in this field of international relations, because I can assure you that while we do have peace today, the threat to peace, the threat to freedom, continues to increase. Why? Not because of our weakness, not because of mistakes that we may be making, but because of the continued, aggressive tactics of the international Communist movement directed by its leaders in Moscow and Peking. And as long as these men continue with their obsession, which is to make the world a Communist world as far as Mr. Khrushchev is concerned without war if possible; as far as the men in Peking are concerned with war if necessary; as long as this is their aim, America can never be content to stand on what it's doing, we can never assume that what we're doing is enough, we always must examine our military posture, our economic strength, and the other areas of strength of this country - to be sure that we're doing our very best. Because unless we do, we will lose; we will lose because we are in a race, and when you're in a race it isn't enough simply to be ahead, you must move ahead to stay ahead. And so, I do not stand on the record today. I say we must build on it. And if I might outline just briefly some of those areas in which I believe the next President of the United States must exert leadership to maintain the peace, to see to it that we do not lose what we have gained in these last 7½ years. We obviously begin - and everybody in North Dakota with your great defense installations so near this city will understand this - we obviously begin with this as a must. The United States with its allies must not only have military strength second to none, but military strength which will meet this test: regardless of what a potential enemy may have, if he should launch an attack, we must have enough left so that we could destroy his warmaking capabilities. We have that kind of strength today, that is why attacks are not made. But we must constantly reexamine our strength, compare it with what we know or believe the Soviet Union as well as the Communist Chinese may be doing (?). And then we must do whatever is necessary and be willing to pay the cost in dollars, which are necessary, to see that America's military strength will deter aggression and keep the peace in this area; this we must do. [Applause.] Now the temptation, of course, is to assume that if you have this great military strength - that that is the shield that you need and that will keep the peace; but it isn't, of course, alone enough, as I am sure you know. This strength must be used wisely. This means that it must be combined with diplomacy, which is also strong - diplomacy, which not only averts war, but which promotes the cause of peace. Now what do I mean by that kind of diplomacy? I think I could sum it up as I often have with two adjectives: the diplomacy of the United States in the years ahead must be firm and it also must be nonbelligerent. We must avoid [applause] - we must avoid the twin dangers on the one side of appeasement, which would not satisfy a dictator and which would not lead to peace but eventually could lead to war, on the 1 side; but we must avoid also on the other side the ill-considered kind of reactions to the insults that we must expect and the provocations we must expect and we must avoid those reactions because we cannot have the luxury, frankly, of losing our tempers simply because the other man may lose his. [Applause.] I think the President's conduct at the Paris Conference was a good example of what I have been saying. [Applause.] He was criticized after that conference on two scores: there were some who said that the President should have answered Mr. Khrushchev's insults, that he should have stood up to him and given back to him as good as he took. But the President was right - as you know - first because when you are strong, when you are confident that your position is right, you don't lose your dignity and get down to the level of the man who insults you, and the President maintained the dignity. [Applause.] On the other hand, there were well-intentioned people who said: "But why didn't he save the conference? Why didn't he go to further lengths than he did? Couldn't he, for example, perhaps have acceded to Mr. Khrushchev's request that he express regrets or apologies for what had happened on the U-2 flights?" And the President couldn't do that, and the reason that he couldn't again, I think we will all understand. First, because doing that, as I've already indicated, wouldn't have satisfied Mr. Khrushchev, it would only make him demand more; this is the way that he reacts when he insists on that kind of action. And second, the President couldn't do that - and I can only say in response to those that suggested that he could, that may the time never come when any President - Democrat or Republican - feels that it is necessary to apologize or express regrets for attempting to defend the security of the United States. [Applause.] Well, now again, we might be tempted to stop here. America will be strong, she will be firm, she will be nonbelligerent, and we will have peace. But we can't stop here, because this is still a defensive position. We must go beyond that; we must extend the cause of peace; we must extend freedom throughout the world, because we live in a changing world, and it isn't enough for Americans to sit here with our good life (and it is a good life - travel to other countries and come back, if you have any doubts about it); we must remember that as we sit here with our good life, that we cannot retain it unless the opportunities throughout the world for others to have equally a good life are extended and realized. And so, when we think of our own life and making it better, we cannot think of it alone; we must think of the world as well. And so, what can we do to extend peace; what can we do to extend freedom, so that we can retain our own in the United States? First, as far as peace is concerned, we must, of course, strengthen those institutions which keep the peace. Now I know all of you in this audience watch the United Nations with great interest - since it was founded in San Francisco, the city I visited just 2 nights ago. There has been a lot of criticism of the United Nations, but I would say that when we look at the record of that organization, we could point out instance after instance where if we had not had the United Nations with the strong support of the United States - moral, military, and economic at all times - if we had not had the United Nations, we might have risked war in several instances. I think, for example, our (?) conduct in the Congo is one of the best reasons certainly for supporting the United Nations as we have. We could have moved in - or muscled in - the Congo, as Mr. Khrushchev apparently tried to do, but we didn't. We supported the United Nations with the result that the hope of the people of the Congo to retain their independence has, I think, at least for the time being, been sustained. But we must continue, although it appears sometimes to be the difficult way, to support the United Nations, the Organization of American States, our friends around the world, in a collective operation to further the cause of peace, and we must develop ways not only to work with these organizations as they are, but to strengthen them and develop new organizations of this type. [Applause.] And may I say in that connection that I realize that the experience of the candidates, when you vote for President and Vice President, will have a lot to do with your decision. It would not be appropriate for me to talk about my experience as compared with that of my opponent; it is appropriate for me to talk about the experience of my running mate. And I would say that I am proud that he is on the ticket with me; I would say further that I don't know of any man in the world today who has done a better job of standing up against the men in the Kremlin and representing the cause of peace and freedom than he has in the United Nation - Henry Cabot Lodge. [Applause.] And I can assure you that he and I will work together, if we are given the opportunity, in strengthening the instruments of freedom and the instruments of peace throughout the world. But having talked about negotiation, may we turn now to a further side of affirmative actions we must take if we are to keep the peace and extend freedom. Military strength, diplomatic strength, and, third, we come to economic strength. Why is this important? Because a challenge has been laid down to us. Mr. Khrushchev has said over and over again, when I saw him in the Soviet Union, and he repeated over and over again when he visited the United States - he said: "We are not going to have to fight a war, a shooting war." He said: "We are going to defeat the United States in the economic race in which we're engaged." He said: "You're ahead of us now, but we're moving faster than you are and we're going to catch you." And then he turned to me and he said: "As we go by we're going to wave and say, 'Bye, bye, come along, follow us, do as we do, or you'll fall way behind in this race.'" All that I can say is this: Mr. Khrushchev, I think, certainly believes, or appears to believe, that his system is best and that he may be able to catch us. But the only way that he would be able to catch us is if we did do as he did as far as his economic system was concerned. We must remember that the strength of America in this economic race is in the fact that we do not rely primarily on what government does to create economic progress, but that we rely on the creative enterprise of 180 million free American citizens. [Applause.] Government must play its part, government must, of course, handle our defense, it must handle the great programs for economic assistance abroad and the like - with which you are familiar - but as far as economic progress generally is concerned we must recognize that government's function primarily must be to stimulate and encourage individual enterprise in our economy. That's why we got where we are today, and that is how we will continue to grow in the future. And to those who suggest that we've been standing still, I say: "Travel around the United States, look at the United States, see what has happened. Look at Grand Forks and compare your situation today as it was 8 years ago; look at the country generally and you'll find that America is moving forward and it must continue to move forward at even greater progress in the future and it can, provided we continue our faith and the principles that have been responsible for our progress in the past." [Applause] And now, if I may be permitted to say just a word about an issue related to our economic progress with which the people of North Dakota are greatly concerned, an issue that I'm going to comment upon in a major speech at Guthrie Center, Idaho, on Friday (Note. - The Vice President obviously meant to say "Iowa.") : The contributions that the Nation's farmers have been making and can make in the future toward the strength of America economically in the struggle in which we're engaged. First of all, let's recognize a fundamental fact. You hear a lot of talk about the farm problem these days, and from a political standpoint it's a difficult one. But let's never forget that there is no greater asset that we have in our struggle with the forces of slavery than the tremendous incredible productivity of America's farmers. [Applause.] Mr. Khrushchev knows this. He told me when he got back to Washington that he was pretty impressed with what he saw on the farms in Iowa that he visited, and he has reason to know it and I'll tell you why: because here in the United States approximately 6,500,000 farmers and farmworkers produce as much as 50 million farmers and farmworkers produce in the Soviet Union. [Applause.] That, you see, gives us a tremendous advantage which we must retain. But since we owe this to our farmers, we must see that our farmers get, what they do not receive today, and that is a fair share of America's increasing prosperity, and this can be done. The problem is difficult. As I've indicated, I'm going to touch upon it in detail in Iowa on Friday and a speech in South Dakota at the national plowing contest the next night. But just to indicate my thinking in a nutshell, it is this. I think that we have got to quit thinking about our farm surpluses in a negative way; we've got to consider them, what they are to be - a national asset. We've got to quit thinking of this problem in a timid way; we may have to pay more now to get the surpluses off the farmers' backs, surpluses which hold down his in come, pay more now in order that the problem will be less acute later on. And I would say further that as far as this program is concerned, if both of our major parties will recognize that it cannot be solved on a political name-calling basis, but that it can be solved if we go to work together and work for a solution rather than simply for an issue, that America's farmers will be better off and the Nation as well in the process. [Applause.] Now, if I might come to my final point, I have spoken of our military strength, of our diplomacy, the necessity of strengthening the international organizations which work for peace, our economic strength which is tremendously important, but if we stopped here we would be making a very, very grave mistake. Let me illustrate it by an experience. My wife and I have had the privilege of traveling to 55 countries abroad. We have had many heartwarming welcomes, but one that will stand out in our memories the longest was the one that we had on a Sunday afternoon in Warsaw right after our visit to the Soviet Union last summer. Let me describe it in just a moment. There was no notice by the Government that we were arriving at a certain time because they were not trying to get out a crowd. Mr. Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before and they did not want to be embarrassed by having our reception bigger than his. But the word gets around in a Communist country via the underground, and after we left the airport, as we drove through the streets of Warsaw, the crowds became bigger and bigger until in the heart of the city we were stopped eight times by great surging crowds of people. They were throwing flowers - hundreds and hundreds of bouquets thrown into the car, bouquets that some of these very poor people had purchased themselves. They were crying, many of them, tears of joy streaming down their cheeks, and they were shouting right at the top of their voices: "Long live the United States." Why? Why were they doing this? Not because I was somebody that they knew and was a great hero as President Eisenhower would have been had he gone there; not because America was strong militarily and strong economically - Mr. Khrushchev represented a strong military country and strong economic country, too, and he didn't receive this kind of a welcome. Because they knew that America has always stood for - and stands today - for something more than military strength and economic strength and gross materialism, that we stand for moral and spiritual values which caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago and still excite the admiration of people on both sides of the Iron Curtain today. [Applause.] This part of my message I direct particularly to the 30 percent of this audience who are students. As you lead America in this last half of the 20th century, remember: Our military strength is important, our economic strength is important, but the battle for peace and freedom is going to be won if America keeps its moral and spiritual values strong and sound. [Applause.] And this can't be done by electing a President who will talk about them, as I will and my opponent will, this can't be done simply by relying on people in Washington - Senators and Congressmen and others - to give the right kind of leadership. The moral and spiritual strength and character of a country must come from its people, from their hearts, from the home, from the church, from the schools, from the great universities. And let us strengthen our ideals remembering that what we do in America has effect all over the world. And to the young people who will go out from this university, may I say, some of you, of course, will run for office * * (NOTE. - Recording ends at this word, although it was not the end of the tape.)
QUESTION. Do you feel, there is a possible recession and, second, how do you feel about the effect on your campaign? The VICE PRESIDENT. First, answering the first part of the question first, obviously any drastic change in economic conditions affects the campaign, and a change for the worse would affect the campaign of whoever was running representing the administration. As economic conditions improve, it tends to help whoever represents the administration. That's the theoretical point I'll cover first. Now, as far as the question itself, as to what will happen to the economy, I am not bearish with regard to it. As I look at all the indicators, and particularly as I look at what to me is the most important indicator of all, retail sales, I find that the economy generally is in good, strong condition. You mentioned steel. Steel has been down but as automobiles go back into production, with new models, certainly there is some indication that steel also will move up. So, I do not believe, one, that there will be a recession; two, I do not, therefore, believe that an economic downturn will be one of the issues of this campaign. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, the U-2 incident, the State Department first came out with a statement-- The VICE PRESIDENT. Looking back on the U-2 incident, I think any of us as Sunday morning quarterbacks, might have done things differently. The State Department in the first instance was reacting having in mind what the possibilities might be in the event that the pilot, for example, were saved, were not saved, and also not knowing exactly how much the Russians knew. As it turned out, their guess proved to be a bad one. So, that makes the first decision look very bad. My own feeling about it is that, as I looked at the situation and studied it, looking at the men on the spots who had to make the decisions at the time, you could find a good reason for everything they did at that time. Looking at it now, we would say we wouldn't have done it that way and we ran too many risks in attempting to cover the situation where it seemed to be clear that we might be caught eventually as we were. So, that would be my analysis of it. In other words, I don't believe any good purpose is served by pointing to some of the State Department officials who were doing the best they could and who at the time would have justification for saying what they did if things had turned out differently. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, there is one question you have answered so many times and so completely. You have even suggested a cutoff date and have asked the people to join you in your comments toward your opponent. Is there any yardstick or is there any set of circumstances which would cause you to say this is the date and the hour to cut off discussion on that point? The VICE PRESIDENT. As far as the cutoff date on the discussion of the so-called religious issue, which you apparently are referring to, I believe that as far as I am concerned it has been reached. I made a very complete statement on this on "Meet the Press" on Sunday. I made it absolutely clear that I disapproved of the religious issue being used in my behalf or against my opponent, or either way, as the case might be, just as he has indicated that religion should not be an issue. Also, I have made it very clear in a conference that I had in San Francisco that I thought there was no question whatever about Mr. Kennedy's putting the Constitution first; I did not think there was a religious issue in fact, and I would do everything I could to keep it out. Now, as far as I am concerned then I believe that further discussion of the issue on my part would only keep the issue in the public mind and in the headlines. As far as my opponent is concerned and as far as those who support him are concerned, they are going to have to make that decision. It would not be for me to judge them. Their situation is different, and I understand that. So, I would prefer to let them make their own determination. I would hope they would reach the same conclusion I did because the more they talk about it, the more I get questions like the one you just asked. QUESTION. Mr. Nixon, two of the most powerful Republican newspapers in Illinois endorsed the Democratic candidates for U.S. Senator and for Governor. How do you think that will affect your chances of taking Illinois? The VICE PRESIDENT. It's always a problem, of course, when you are running for office to have your local ticket to have less support than the national ticket may have. Of course, sometimes it can be the other way. The local ticket can be stronger than the national ticket. Now, I would say, however, that our reports from Illinois to date have been good, starting with the showing in the primary and continuing through the convention and since the convention. My own view is that we have a good chance to take Illinois. We're not certainly taking it for granted, I can assure you. We intend to be back here on several occasions to campaign in the major cities of Illinois. We also intend to do some whistlestopping in the State. At the present time we believe our prospects are good, I would say, finally, with regard to the local candidates, the candidate for Governor and the candidate for Senator, that I would think their campaigns would begin to pick up at this point, and I would hope that they would, and I am going to do everything I can to pick them up because you generally will find that you cannot run alone in a campaign. You can run ahead of your ticket to an extent. But it is always hopeful to have all links and chains as strong as possible, and I am going to try to strengthen them while I am here. QUESTION. Mr. Nixon, I would like to return to one aspect of the cutoff question. We know that often usually it is not on your initiative or Mr. Kennedy's initiative that the issue is discussed. I would like to ask you if you expect soon to reach a point where you will consider it improper or not useful to reply to questions on this subject? The VICE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, I think so. For example, as I pointed out in my press conference in San Francisco, and also on "Meet the Press," it is a very terrible dilemma for a candidate, for both Senator Kennedy and myself; we like to be responsive to questions. We don't like to say, "No comment," and yet the moment we comment that is probably the news of the conference. My own view is that I have covered it thoroughly on "Meet the Press." I covered it in the press conference in San Francisco. I felt that today I could, since I had not been in this area before, with justification cover it at least to this extent. As far as I am concerned, I think the cutoff date with regard to answering questions has been reached. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, we in central Illinois were told last week that the farm policy would be near the views of Secretary of Agriculture Benson if you were elected. Does this mean more moves toward the so-called free agriculture? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I intend to make two major speeches on farm policy, one in Iowa on Friday, the other in South Dakota on the following Friday. In those speeches I will make some proposals that will depart from some of the recommendations that Secretary Benson has made. I believe that as far as the term "free agriculture" is concerned, this is an objective toward which we should work. I believe, however, that we need more flexibility in working toward that objective than we have had in the past. I would not like to go further in what my policy will be since the speeches are in the process of preparation, and, incidentally for the members of the press, will be ready, I think, sometime tomorrow. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, if the Russians should successfully launch a man into space before election time, would this have an adverse effect upon your candidacy? The VICE PRESIDENT. That is very hard to say. Obviously, any time a potential competitor of the United States gets ahead of us in a significant area it tends to make the people wonder if our own policies might have been at fault. Of course, in the area of space, we are well aware that the advantage the Russians have, and the only advantage, is in the size of their boosters. The reason they could possibly put a man in space before we could is because they have bigger boosters. The reason they have bigger boosters, of course, is well known. They started sooner. They started to experiment in this field in 1945 and 1946, and our major space program and booster program did not begin until 1953 and 1954. But I would say that if they do launch a man into space, we're not going to get downhearted, because our program is coming along splendidly. We have a big booster program, of course, on the way, and a man-in-space program, and if they do move ahead they won't stay there long? I'm confident that we have the ability and also that we have the resources to catch up and pass them. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, you did open the door a little bit on the farm subject at Grand Forks this afternoon, I believe, when you said we may have to pay more to get the surpluses off the farmers' back. I wonder, in view of that, if you can say how much more and for what length of time this might be necessary? The VICE PRESIDENT. I would not like to say how much more because that I do specifically cover in my first speech. My first speech in Iowa, at Guthrie Center, will deal primarily with what we do with what I call the temporary problem. The surplus, how do we get rid of the nut, the surplus, which is the burden on the farmers' back, as a price depressant. Now, I have some ideas in this field I think will be helpful. I do believe, and I won't mind going this far, that in attacking the problem we should set a time in which we intend to deal with it. I think as we look at our programs in the surplus field over the past years, that we have had surpluses, that several of the programs have been admirable. The problem has been that we have not, in my opinion, gone far enough in dealing with the problem once and for all effectively; and in my opinion in determining how much we should spend, for example, next year in order to take a big bite out of the surpluses we should not be guided simply by the amount that is involved and the cost this year because it might be more than we have been spending, but we have to have in mind the fact that simply having the surplus problem as it is in the end costs us even more. So, my point is if, by a stepped-up program now, we can get the surpluses off the farmers' back, and for that matter, off the tax-payers' back as well, while it will cost more this year and perhaps for some other years as well, it will cost less in the long run. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, how serious do you personally consider the farmer's problem today and how much of your time are you going to devote to it in your campaigning? The VICE PRESIDENT. You meant from a political standpoint? QUESTION. Right. The VICE PRESIDENT. The farmer's problem is obviously a keen political issue. I am not discouraged about it. I have been, as a matter of fact, encouraged by the reception we have had in farm areas, and also I should point out that the farmer is today a person who has very broad interests and is going to vote on not only farm programs; he is going to vote concerning foreign policy matters and others in which he has a great deal of interest, as well as the rest of the people. I am going to devote two major speeches to the farm program, and that does indicate, I believe, it's serious. I do feel we will make gains among the farmers this year over what we did in 1958. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, how is the knee, how are you feeling in general, and how do you feel about the reaction to your return to the campaign trail? The VICE PRESIDENT. How is my knee, did you say? QUESTION. How is your knee and how are you in general bearing up. The VICE PRESIDENT. My knee is coming along fine. Generally speaking, I am in good physical condition, considering the rigors of travel, except for the usual touch of hay fever which comes to me every time at this time of year, and which you sometimes may notice in my voice, as well as in my nose, and, as far as the campaign to date, the receptions, I've be en very encouraged. The crowds have been big. That we would normally expect because people are curious. They want to see presidential candidates, and I recognize that. What is more, they have been enthusiastic - and that is what has been encouraging. The reports we have received from our local leaders have also been encouraging. I make it clear, we think it's going to be a very close fight, and we're going to campaign assuming that will be the case, but we have been encouraged by our reception to date. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, the Federal highway program has slowed down-- The VICE PRESIDENT. I think as far as the highway program is concerned, we simply have to get the Congress to understand the great support in the country for the highway program and what I believe to be the willingness in the country to pay the bill for it. I believe the highway program will go down in history as one of the major achievements of the Eisenhower administration, and I would certainly intend to give it every support, if elected, but I believe that we should pay for the program through increased taxes to the extent that such taxes may be necessary - gas taxes. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in your acceptance speech you mentioned the fact you might call on us for sacrifices, but we haven't heard much about them to date. What do you have in mind in that way? Increased taxes? The VICE PRESIDENT. When I spoke of sacrifices, I was speaking first of the possibility that, in the event our defense requirements, because of what the Russians were doing and because of new breakthroughs, became greater than we presently feel are necessary, we should have to be prepared to pay the taxes to meet those expenses. I would say that as far as sacrifices in a general sense are concerned, you could look at it this way: All Americans would like to have more of the income they produce. They would like to have less taxes than they presently are paying. I don't want any people in the country to have any illusions about the necessity for our maintaining, not only national defense, but our programs in the field of foreign policy at adequate levels, and that must come first; and, while I do not anticipate at this point that further taxes would be necessary, at this point I believe we can have an adequate program with the tax level we presently have. There must be no doubt whatever among the people themselves that they must be willing to pay taxes, if necessary, to protect the security of the country. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, it has been charged, notably by Democrats, of course, our foreign policy has gone to pot. We have lost Cuba. How do you feel about that? The VICE PRESIDENT. I disagree. I would be expected to, of course. The foreign policy critics made the same charge in 1956 when President Eisenhower was running. I remember that the former Governor of Illinois said that on many occasions our prestige was at alltime low. Today they say that our prestige is at an alltime low and, while they no longer say, as they did at the Los Angeles convention, that we're second militarily or economically, they say we're going to get that way. I don't believe that everything we've done, of course, is without criticism. We are bound to make mistakes, and hindsight is very convenient for the purpose of pointing up those mistakes - and it's proper, of course, to point them up - but when you look at the foreign policy of the United States overall, when you consider the support that we get in the United Nations for our positions whenever the Soviet Union is on the other side, the fact we've never lost a major vote in 8 years, when you consider that the receptions the President has had on his visits abroad, I say that those who are selling U.S. prestige abroad ought to go abroad and see. QUESTION. Sir, if elected, how soon after the election would you expect to receive an invitation from Khrushchev to return to the summit, and would you accept such an invitation immediately? The VICE PRESIDENT. As far as Mr. Khrushchev inviting me, or whoever is the next President, which would be Mr. Kennedy, I think it would be not particularly helpful to try to guess what he would do. He's rather unpredictable at the moment, I think. The second point I would make is: Whoever is President, I think, must examine any invitation to the summit with the greatest of care. We must not raise again the hopes of the world as they were raised by the agreement to attend the last summit and then have those hopes dashed by a completely irresponsible action on the part of Mr. Khrushchev, unless and until preparations are made at the diplomatic level which will give us considerable assurance that a summit, if it is held, may serve a reasonable purpose and provide some chance for progress toward relieving tensions, the next President, whoever he is, should not agree to a summit conference. I don't mean he should rule it out, but, I think, in view of what happened in Paris, that the only responsible course of action for a President is to look at summitry with a more jaundiced eye than we have previously and to be sure that we go to the summit and we have a chance to do something there. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, concerning Mr. Lodge. The VICE PRESIDENT. I expect Mr. Lodge will be, as I have often indicated, a partner, particularly in the field of foreign policy, as well as in other fields to the extent that he can, and wherever a major decision involving U.N. is concerned, certainly I would have the greatest respect for his judgment in that particular field, and I have some ideas about additional assignments for him which I will announce at a later time.
I can only say that the introduction I received by your presence is one that I have heard quite a few times - at least the last line, the last part, "The next President of the United States," as I have traveled around the country since the convention. That can happen. But I can assure you that if it does happen, it will be because of what you do because you are the front line of our ticket and of our party in this campaign and that is why I welcome the opportunity in talking to you today. I am not alone in this conviction. In speaking to the President on many occasions, he has said that in 1952 and 1956 the men did the talking and the women did the working and, certainly, it has been my experience and the experience of every man and every woman who has been active in political life that the women play a tremendously important part because they do do the work in the campaigns, the voluntary work that is essential if we are going to get our story across to the Nation. In speaking to you today there are many things that I would like to cover but, because of the makeup of this platform here I want to say some things first about New Jersey, the State in which I am presently appearing. I am glad that appearing with me today on the platform is Senator Case who is running for reelection, our candidates for the Congress of the United States, our incumbent Congressmen, and also the candidates also present at this meeting as well as party officials of New Jersey; and then, of course, you couldn't possibly have a meeting in Atlantic City without Senator Hap Farley, as you well know. Now, I mention these men and I mention, of course, our friend Flo Dwyer because she is our city Congresswoman from New Jersey, I mention them for a reason: in a political campaign where you are running a ticket for the Presidency, the national tendency is for everybody to get tremendously excited by the top of the ticket and not pay too much attention to the rest of it and I just want you to know that I don't think that is the right thing to do. It isn't good, frankly, for the one running at the top. What is more, it isn't good for your State, for your district; it isn't good for the Nation. The only way we can have a strong national party is to have a strong State party and a strong local party. I am proud to stand here on the platform with our candidates as I have in every State which I have visited in which I will in every one of the 50 States which I still hope to visit between now and November 8, stand with them, because I want to help build this party of ours not only on the national levels but in the Senate, in the House, State legislatures and in the governorships as well. So, if all of you forget everything else, I say today, carry that message back to those particular areas from which you come. Remember, these local officers are tremendously important and work for them just as hard as you work for us who may have the good fortune or responsibility as it may be to run for office. May I say, too, that I deeply appreciate the fact that we have had such delightful entertainment today with Tex and Jinx McCreary and Jules Stein and the stars from "Gypsy" which we have, of course, seen on Broadway. I think sometimes we don't appreciate the sacrifice that those in the entertainment world make in order to come and give the extra flavor to our meeting and, certainly, I want to take this opportunity to express on your behalf our appreciation for what they have done to brighten up our meeting today. I am sure that all of us are aware of the fact that Pat and I have been doing a lot of traveling. We have been traveling a little more in the last 3 or 4 days than we have in the past several weeks, and I know that if we had an opportunity to sit down with you individually and talk as I would like to, if time would permit, and if there weren't 40 or more States to cover between now and November 8, I know I would like to sit down with you to talk over the various situations through the States in which we have traveled. In telling you about the States and what I have seen, I have been tremendously encouraged. As you know, we left Washington, or I should say Baltimore, on Monday of this week in a pouring rainstorm. The President, of course, carried it off with great skill when he pointed out that it rained even harder when he had his first meeting in Abilene, Kans., in 1952. Since then we have had what is called "Eisenhower weather" all the way around. We had good weather in California, not only from the standpoint of weather, but also from the standpoint of political climate. We had good weather in Oregon and this morning in St. Louis, and now here in New Jersey. What has encouraged me the most about this particular trip have been these things: 1. The crowds have been extremely big, particularly so for this stage of the campaign. 2. What is more important, they have been enthusiastic. They were the most enthusiastic I have had the opportunity to see in this campaign. 3. We have a great many more young people in the current campaign than we had in 1952 and 1956. The fourth thing - and this is important to you - I have been impressed by the fact that the women in the various States we visited have been more evident in the crowds and seem more interested in this campaign than in any in which I have had the opportunity to participate. This is a good omen. This means as far as our party and as far as our candidates are concerned that we are on the march. Now, how is this going to come out It would be easy to say we have it made and that the tide is running in our favor and all we have to do is keep the momentum going and we will win. I don't have to tell you this will be a close campaign. I think we are going to win, not only because our crowds are large and we have enthusiasm, but mainly because we are on the right side. It is to that point that I particularly want to direct my remarks today. What are those issues? What are the American people thinking about both in Hawaii and Maine, both States which we have visited, and what about the South and North Carolina and the Midwest and the Far West and the North. The answer is, of course, they are thinking about a number of issues, but there are always a few and usually one which stands out above all the rest. I think I can best summarize the issues that I have found traveling through all the States we have visited by a letter I received while I was in the hospital recovering from this knee infection that I had. The letter came from Kirby Maple, Route 2, Somerfield, N.J. He says: "Dear Mr. Nixon, I am a boy 12 years old. I am thinking seriously of the world's future. I don't want to grow up and be a soldier and be shot up. I am writing several important people of the world today asking them for their ideas as to how my friends and I even at our young age may help to keep the world at peace. I would like your ideas on this matter also. Thank you." This letter from this 12-year-old boy sums up the concern that I found all over the United States as we have traveled this country north, east, west, and south. This concern and the idea that this is the major of this campaign is held not only by Republicans but by Democrats and independents, and I find that as far as this particular issue is concerned, it transcends all the rest, because while people, of course, are interested in how government can provide the climate in which we can continue to have good jobs and high wages and how government can provide the necessary procedures through which we can have social security in times of unemployment and better schools and hospitals - while they are interested in these things, they know it doesn't make any difference if we had all those things if we are not around to enjoy them. I say to you the biggest, major issue which we should talk about today above all others is this: Which of the two candidates for the Vice Presidency and the Presidency can best provide the leadership for America and the free world in these next 4 years which will keep the peace without surrender and which will extend the freedom throughout the world. This is the issue that we should discuss. By the way, you have heard enough speakers talk about this issue and I know you have read about it because you are students of government; that is why you are delegates to this convention. I would like to summarize some of the attitudes throughout the country that I think have to be brought home to the American people and I think you are the ones to do it, because as good as I can talk, or Senator Case and the other candidates on the platform can talk, it is up to you. You can spread it out all over the communities and the States of this great Nation of ours. First of all, I think when we consider this issue of peace we obviously must point to our record. We have heard a lot of criticism of that record lately. We have heard about the fact that the U.S. prestige has suffered, but they said the same things in 1956, as you recall. We hear the United States is getting weak militarily and economically and that we must get going again if we are to survive. And we hear the people are uneasy and that the situation isn't as desirable as it might be. Let me suggest this: All the criticisms in the world must not obscure the point you must make, and that is that the policies of this administration have worked because under the leadership of the President we have ended the war which we have engaged in and avoided other wars, and we do have peace today. This we must tell the people. To maintain that peace we, of course, must do things which are essential to give us the instrument which will keep the peace and they are, of course, the ones that are familiar to you. I will repeat them only briefly today for purposes of seeing that the record is full in that respect. First, America must have the military strength regardless of the enemy we have, sufficiently so that if a surprise attack is launched, we will be able to knock out the enemy. We don't maintain this because we want war but because we do not. We keep this strength because it is the best standard of the peace we want and we must make it clear, and I make it clear, that as far as that strength is concerned, it must come before all other considerations and it is the responsibility of the American people that we always maintain that strength we presently have, which is greater than any other nation's, and maintain it in the years ahead so that we can keep the peace as we have in these past 7½ years. In addition to that military strength we also need the right kind of diplomacy. Now, diplomacy is a subject we could talk about for a full hour here, or several days, as a matter of fact, going into each individual problem that the United States has had over the past 7½ years, and how they have been met. Every one of us would agree that no administration is perfect in this field because when we have men on the loose, like the men in the Kremlin and the men in Peiping, we will have problems and we will have them in the future. But as far as diplomacy is concerned, I think there are two guidelines which the President indicated by his conduct at the Paris Conference. I think these the President must follow in the dealings in the future: 1. The guideline of firmness - and we have learned through hard experience that when you make concessions to a dictator you do not satisfy him but only whet his appetite and create the conditions which might lead to war rather than conditions which will result in a lasting peace. That is why at the Paris Conference the President conducted himself with great dignity, as well as great propriety, in handling this situation because in this incident there were those well-intentioned people who suggested that when Mr. Khrushchev broke up the conference because of the U-2 incident, as he did, there were those who suggested that possibly the President could have saved it by apologizing, or by some other means of getting Khrushchev back to the table. Let me tell you why this is wrong. First of all, it was a misunderstanding of the Communist mind for the President to apologize to him. It would not have satisfied Mr. Khrushchev, but it would have encouraged him to have demanded more, because if he gets that kind of concession he isn't satisfied and inevitably he feels he has you on the run; so firmness is necessary in that respect. In addition, I think we will agree that the time must never come when any President, Democrat or Republican, should ever apologize or express regret to anybody for attempting to defend the security of the United States. Now this does not mean only that a President is to answer insult by insult, or refuse to negotiate. He must be willing to negotiate and the Secretary of State, and all others under his administration, must always be willing to negotiate. That President Eisenhower has indicated on so many, many occasions. But conducting the negotiations we must remember the rules and who we are dealing with, and we must not make the errors that would lead to an illusory peace, but that in the end would lead to surrender or to war in the process. So, on this whole policy of diplomacy, we must have firmness and nonbelligerence and we must have diplomacy in which the President does not answer insult with insult, but maintains the dignity of the Office of the President of the United States. When you are confident of this strength, and when you know you are right, you do not engage in a war of words for that reason, and also for the other reason that it is irresponsible to an extreme for anyone to engage in activities that might heat up the international atmosphere and run the risk of igniting nuclear conflict. Up to this point I have deliberately touched on only those things that will hold the line: strength that deters an aggressor; diplomatic policy that will see that war does not break out. How can we make yardage? How can we keep on the offensive for peace? This is the great challenge. This is the responsibility of the President and the Vice President and the next administration of this country. May I say in connection with that that time won't permit me to go into it in detail, but among the things that we must do is strengthen the instruments of peace, and, of course, strengthen the United Nations, strengthen the Organization of American States, and strengthen the other organizations which will provide the forums for discussing our differences, not on the battlefield, but at the conference table. Obviously there are those who will suggest that the other ticket can do this just as well as we can. It would be presumptuous to talk about my experience as compared to my opponent, but I can talk about my running mate. And I will say this: He will be a partner in this enterprise, not only in the campaign, but afterward. He will have new assignments in this area of strengthening the peace and developing new instruments of peace. As I have traveled about the country I find that Democrats, Republicans, and independents agree that there is no man in the world today who has had this experience, and who has done a better job in representing the United States in the cause of peace than Cabot Lodge. I pledge to you that we will work together in this enterprise, not only to hold the line, but to extend the peace and extend freedom to people throughout the world. Now, if I can turn to a related issue, I said at the outset that while people were interested in peace, they were also interested in issues that seemed to be much closer to home, and actually are. Every person wants a good job and good income, security for old age, protection against the hazards of ill health. We want progress in this country, better ideas, progress toward our great goal of equality for all of our people. All these things we want in America, and I think on this particular issue, it is perhaps time to set the records straight with respect to: (1) What is the record of this administration; and (2) to let you know what the prospects for the future are as far as progress toward a better life, and a better America here at home. You have been reading the newspapers, and you have been looking at the television and listening to the radio, which I have not, but I know what they have been saying because it is in the press. You heard this over and over again. It started at the Los Angeles convention - before that - but there it reached the high point and since then both the other candidates keep hammering home, "America has stood still 7½ years, and it is time we get moving again." America has started to move into a new world, across new frontiers because our society is free, and we have made progress in all the areas to which I have referred. They have even suggested that in this problem of civil rights this administration is not interested, and has done nothing about it. Let's set the records straight. Fortunately, we have a very convenient way to do it at the present time. I am sure when you have two opponents getting up and making speeches it is hard to know which one you should believe, because one says I am for this and this, and I can do it better than the other fellow, and it is hard to believe which one is right. In this instance, you don't have to listen to what we say. You can look at what we have done, because we have a record. Look at it for just a moment. You may not have looked at it in this way. It has been 15 years since World War II has ended; 7½ years of that we had a Democratic administration under President Truman, and 7½ years we have had a Republican administration under President Eisenhower. I challenge our opponents on any area of progress to compare our record of our 7½ years with their record of 7½ years. Let's take the area of civil rights, where Cliff Case has done such a good job working with me in the Senate and the country, generally. We have not only done more in the last 7½ years than they did in their 7½; not only that, we made more progress in that 7½ years than they did in 20, and we are certainly proud of that. Schools. Not only have we built more schools in the last 7½ years than were built in the Truman years - we have built more than they built in 20 years. This gives the lie to the charge we are not interested in better schools in this country. I could repeat the same line for all the other areas which spell progress in America. What about jobs? Let's look at the key figure. That is the family income or take-home pay that the average American wage earner gets. We hear over and over again that we are the enemy of the the working people of this country and our policies are designed to help the rich, and not the poor. That is not so because in the 7 years of Truman administration the real income of the American workers went up only 2 percent in real dollars; but in the 7½ years of the Eisenhower administration it went up 15 percent and we are proud of that record. Of course, I realize there are those of you who will run into difficulty as you go out and do your campaigning because of some of the charges made by our opponents, charges that we are really not concerned despite this record - charges that we are not interested in the American people and the wage earners and the like - charges like this one: I spoke this morning to a great convention, the International Machinists Union in St. Louis, just as I am speaking to a great convention here. It was a labor convention, my first one to address during this campaign. I told you in that convention what my opponent said in speaking to a labor rally in Detroit just a few days ago, and this is what he said: "The American labor movement stands for what I want for America," and he went on to say that what the American labor movement opposes, "I oppose." In other words, what the American labor movement stands for, for America, he said, "I stand for" and what the American labor movement opposes, "I oppose." Do you know what I told this group? I said, "I would like to tell you that I stand for everything that your leaders on this platform stand for and that I oppose everything that they are against, but I don't say that to you and I won't say that to the leaders of business and I won't say that to those who represent themselves as the leaders of the farmers or any other group in this country, and I will tell you why: because an American President must not be for or against any one group, he must be President of all the people of this country - he must be President of all the people, and he must stand for those things that the leaders of labor want when they are right for America, but he must be against them when they are wrong. He must stand for those things the leaders of business want when they are right, but be against them when they are wrong, farmers, all the rest of the groups in our society." I want this made absolutely clear in this campaign that I am not going to indulge in the practice of going to this group and that group and, for the sake of getting votes, make promises that not only I know I can't keep but, what is more important, that in the interest of the American people should be kept because we need a united America and not a divided America. So, I will say in summary in regard to these domestic issues that I am proud of the record but the record is not something to stand on, it is something to build on. And we are going to go into this era of the 60's building a better life than Americans have ever enjoyed before. Our opponents say they stand for this, too, but I say to you we can produce whereas they set great goals for themselves; the means that they would use to reach those goals are the discredited policies that America left behind in 1953. So today we shall move forward but we shall move forward based on the principles that have been proved out during this administration and principles that will provide even greater progress in the next 10 years than we have enjoyed in the last. Finally, today I have one last thought that I would like to leave with you before we fly on down to Roanoke, Va., and then on tonight to Omaha, Nebr. Up to this point I have been speaking of things we can all understand because when we speak of military strength and economic strength and diplomatic policy, these are things we see and feel and describe with words. I want to speak now of another kind of strength that is more important than all these, that will be more decisive in this great struggle than all these, and I speak of the moral and spiritual fiber of this country that makes it strong and to build within the American people a flaming idealism that will inspire people around the world to follow the courses of freedom rather than to follow the ways of communism. That is what we need today in this country. It would be easy for me to say that the President of the United States can provide this moral and spiritual leadership that we need, but a leader can only be as effective as his people are effective with him, he can only be as great as the people themselves are great. I would suggest to all of you that as you go back and work in your party activities, remember, also, that the moral and spiritual strength of America must come not from government but it must come from the family, from the home, from the church, from the schools, from your hearts. I say to you today as you go back, go back recognizing that America is today first in the world militarily and economically, but what is more important is that that we must stay first as far as our ideals are concerned. And it is this idealism in the end that will prevail in the struggle in which we engage. And finally, may I say to you, Madam President, as this campaign begins, I say, as I indicated at the beginning, it will be a hard one but we can win, and we can win, as I said before, because we are on the right side. But being on the right side alone is not enough; we need your help, we need your devotion, we need your dedication. I ask you to go out and work, not thinking just that you are working for our party, which is in itself a great goal, or for an individual, which, of course, can be a very inspiring goal at times, but remembering that you are working for an even greater goal, you are working for your country and you are working for the opportunity for America to realize its destiny, to lead this world as it must, to lead it to peace and to provide hope for peoples on both sides of the Iron Curtain, for freedom and for justice. This is our goal. Let this be the great inspiration of our campaign.
President Hayes, distinguished guests on the platform, delegates to this convention of the International Association of Machinists and our guests, I first want to express my appreciation to the delegates and to the officers of the IAM for allowing me to come at this rather early hour for the purpose of speaking to you. I must admit that making a speech at 8 o'clock in the morning isn't something I would choose for the purpose of making a living, but certainly the fact that the schedule was such that I could not be in St. Louis later today has inconvenienced you, and I appreciate the fact that with all of your business of your convention that you are here and giving me the opportunity to meet you and to discuss some of the great issues before the country. Also, may I say that I appreciate the fact that you have invited my wife "Pat" to come with me. I bring her for a very selfish reason. I am going to lay it right on the line, incidentally. I heard a fellow over here say, "We want Pat," when they introduced me. I recall the last time we were visiting Nebraska, we had a big receiving line. A farmer came through the line from western Nebraska. This meeting was in Lincoln. He said, "I drove 200 miles to this meeting, Mr. Vice President," and after he shook hands with me, and he shook hands with my wife, he said, "My wife is going to vote for you, but I am going to vote for Pat." So all of you who aren't going to vote for me, I would like you to vote for Pat. I am very proud of this badge. This makes me an official delegate or guest of this convention. I asked the secretary-treasurer if it made me a member of the IAM, and he said, "No; not until you pay your dues." And I can only say that I guess the only union that I can qualify for would be the union of vice presidents. With the number that we have up on this stage we'd have a pretty big one incidentally, too. I am not going to suggest that vice presidents be automatically promoted at the national level as they are in this union, incidentally, because that would be going further than I should, but I suppose there is one other union to which I could well qualify to be a member. Mr. Khrushchev said that I was not a spaceman but a grocery clerk. My answer is that I would rather be a grocery clerk in the United States than head of the Soviet Union. Last night at the airport when President Hayes and my colleagues and the vice presidents of your organization and others were out to greet me at 11 o'clock, in speaking to the people that were gathered there I made a statement to the effect that my talk this morning would be nonpolitical, and I got a message from President Hayes this morning saying:  Mr. Nixon, we appreciate the fact that you apparently were willing to follow the rules of fairness in making this a nonpolitical talk under the circumstances, but since we want you to discuss the issues, we want you to be just as political as you need or want to be in order for us to understand where you stand on issues. I want you to know that I appreciate that attitude. I think too often in this country the idea has gotten abroad that only the candidates of one political party would be welcome to speak to a great organization of labor such as this one, and I think the fact that you have invited me as well as my opponent indicates that you are fair minded. It indicates that you realize that one of the two of us might win and that therefore you ought to hear from both of us. Now if I can move directly into the issues, I first want to say some things about this organization itself with which I am familiar; to pay my respects to you, and in paying my respects to you, to inform the American public and the American people of some things about this organization and others like it which are too often forgotten. One, I have deeply appreciated the cooperation which President Hayes and the members of this organization have given to me as Chairman of the President's Committee on Government Contracts. The Committee, as you know, which was set up for the purpose of seeing that the American ideals - quality of opportunity for all in employment, particularly - was to apply whenever the public funds are to be spent, and in this area may I say I think we can all agree that where tax money is used for the purpose of letting out a Government contract, that everybody who pays taxes, regardless of what his background is, is entitled to an equal break in getting a job under those contracts and President Hayes has been most helpful in this regard. As a matter of fact, I was telling him just before this meeting that I recall the last time we met was in Washington at a forum of that Committee over which I presided. We had brought leaders from over the country in order to give them an opportunity to see what was being done in labor, in management, in our churches, and in all the other groups, to work against prejudice wherever it might exist, and I told Mr. Hayes, I said, "You know, I have the greatest respect for you in a number of ways, but particularly as a speaker," because that day I remember that he made the most eloquent of all addresses. His answer, incidentally, was one - I see that you agree. Before you know it, I will be nominating him for something. But in any event, his answer was rather interesting. He said:  That reminds me of a story about Yogi Berra. When he went up to the World Series to play the first series with the Braves and the Yankees, there was an occasion at that time when one of the wives of the Braves wanted to meet this very colorful catcher of the Yankees, now outfielder under Casey Stengel's system. Yogi Berra was there and one of the wives of the Braves went up to meet him, and she said he looked like a very cool fellow and his answer was, "You don't look so hot yourself." But be that as it may. Using that word "cool" in the sense that my teen-age daughters use it, Mr. Hayes, when it comes to presenting his point of view whether it is on labor, whether it is on equality of opportunity or in any other area, you can be proud, as he is one of the most effective men among American leaders today, and I am proud to say that. The second thing that I would like to say with regard to this union is the work that President Hayes has done on the Ethical Practices Committee of the AFL-CIO. We hear about and have heard a lot about what is wrong with organized labor in the United States and I have been always interested to know and learn that the men who are most concerned about the derelictions of those few leaders of labor who have broken trust with their members and the people are the great majority of labor leaders who keep trust with their members and as the leaders of this union have over the many years during the period of your existence. And while we pass laws, as we must, and as we sometimes should, for the purpose of playing down standards which we would trust that all unions would follow, that will protect their members from the excesses of the few and see that all unions follow the good practices of the great majority which do follow such practices and not those that are the battlers of the few may say as far as particular work is concerned, it can come most effectively from within the union movement itself. A law is only as good as the will of the people to keep it. And I would like to say that the very work that Mr. Hayes has done to clean up, in those few instances that have been brought to the attention of the leaders of his organization, has been an admirable example for all and in the great American tradition, and I pay tribute to him today for his work along that line. Now, there was a third area I would like to mention. This one I will touch on briefly now, and I will touch on it, if I may be permitted, a little more later, because when I came in President Hayes said he would give me 30 minutes to talk, if I liked, or 45. I won't take 45. I may take 30, 50 if you will bear with me, I would like to mention this point at this time and then expand a little more later. We hear a great deal these days about the enemies of the United States. Books have been written about the enemy from within. We hear a great deal these days about the enemies of the United States abroad, and what we can do to meet the forces of slavery and communism and defeat them without war, or, putting it another way, how we can extend freedom throughout the world. And may I say that there has been no group in America that has been more aware of the true nature of the Communist threat, more aware of the fact that it is the enemy of freedom and the enemy of free trade union leaders and free trade union movement throughout the world, there has been no group that has been more aware of that than the American labor movement, and you have proven it, and I will tell you how. You have proven it by, in effect, putting your money where it is most needed. You have sent your people for what purpose? Not for the purpose of serving your own selfish ends but for the purpose of serving America and the cause of freedom. To help the leaders of unions in the newly developing countries abroad to be oriented in the paths of freedom rather than in the paths of slavery, and I can tell you, and I have made this statement over and over again to business groups, to educational groups, and to labor groups, I can tell you today as one who knows something about this field who has traveled in 55 countries, who has been most to the newly developing countries, there is nothing that is more important if these countries are going to develop in freedom and not in slavery than to see that the new labor movements that are developing in those countries develop along the lines of the labor movement in the United States and not along the lines of the so-called labor movement in the Soviet Union which is not a labor union as all of you know. I am sure that the delegates of this convention are perhaps scratching their heads and saying, "Well now this fellow says he is for this, he is for this and he is for this and these are all things that we are for." That sure sounds like politics, doesn't it? It does. Now I am going to tell you something I am not for. I want to be completely honest - I want you to know exactly where I stand and I appreciate the opportunity that is presented to tell you exactly where I stand. I have here a report of a speech made by my opponent in Detroit before a labor group and this is what it says:  What the American labor movement wants for America is what I want for America; and what the American labor movement opposes I oppose. If I were solely concerned about both, I would tell you that today. I would say that I was 100 percent for everything that the officers of this grand lodge and on this platform were for. I would say that I was 100 percent for something that the delegates to this convention are for, representing a great number of voters in this country. I would say that I was against 100 percent everything that you are against. I could tell you that. It might win votes but I don't tell you that. I want to tell you why - because it would not be good for the labor movement and for labor union members and it would not be good for America for a President of the United States to make that kind of a statement to an organization of this kind. Now may I spell it out for a moment. If we are talking about the goals that you seek - good jobs, a high standard of living; developing this country; in peace, in the paths of peace and doing everything that we can to avoid war; if we are standing for the great slogans I see - justice on the job - service to the community - security for the family - of course I am for it and so is my opponent. Let's get one thing straight right now. He has indicated that anyone who disagrees with him in this field is in effect opposing the interests of the people and the interests of America. I don't say that where he disagrees with me that he opposes those interests. I think he wants a good life for the American people but let me say to him I do too, and I don't think that it serves the cause of uniting America for one presidential candidate to suggest that another is only for the selfish few and fighting against the interests of the many, because it isn't true and I deny it today and I would prove it isn't true to this great organization and to this audience. After all, you know how many people there are who are wage earners in this country? Sixty-seven million. More people on the job today than ever in the history of the country. Do you think that any presidential candidate, merely apart from the fact that he wants to win, could in good conscience take a position that was not in his opinion in the best interests of those 67 million people who are the great majority of the people in the country? Of course not. Consider my own personal situation. I know what it is in the little store in which I worked to see a child of an unemployed man come in and have to ask to put things on the bill, knowing that his dad or hers probably wasn't going to get a job for a while. I know what continued unemployment can do, not only to the men, but worse, to the morale of the children. I know what it is for a family to attempt to meet the bills at the end of the month. I have seen housewives come in and refuse to buy strawberries out of season. I have seen them come in and instead of buying that good-looking steak, get the stewed meat or the hamburger in order to balance the budget. As far as I am concerned if what you are interested in is whether I feel in my heart a concern for the things that your organization is dedicated to realize, then, my friends, all that I can say is that my whole life I trust shows that I do feel it and the only difference between my opponent and myself is not in the goals we seek, a better America for us all, but in the means that we would reach to get those goals. I said a moment ago that I could not say that I would be 100 percent for everything that the leaders of this movement or any other movement would be for. I could not be 100 percent for what the leaders of the junior chamber of commerce, before whom I spoke in this auditorium in St. Louis the last time I was here would be for. I could not be 100 percent for what those who hold themselves out as leaders of America's farmers would be for. It is the obligation of the President of the United States to be President of all the people and not to set one group against another and if I become President, that is what I am going to do. Let me tell you why I think that is so important. I had some first-hand experience in settling a labor dispute, as you may well recall, a few months ago. Mr. McDonald and Mr. Blough were in my home on business for 8 straight nights and believe me, I know what negotiating is. I know all about the creeps and all these other things you experts in this audience could, of course, give me a great lesson in, since you are more familiar than I. But I have learned something about it, and you know what I have found? It would have been a mistake if I, representing the Government, had recommended a settlement that went all the way with Mr. McDonald. It would have been a mistake if I, representing the Government, had gone all the way with Roger Blough. The only way we can get a settlement was for me, representing the President of the United States, to think of the whole people, think of union members, to think of the productivity of our economy and then represent and then come out and recommend the settlement that both could live with and one that would be in the best interests of America. When we were through, Mr. McDonald wasn't completely satisfied with it. He did not get 100 percent what he wanted. Roger Blough wasn't satisfied with it. He did not get what he wanted in connection with a 100-percent settlement, but I got what I thought was good for America and that is the test that I am going to follow all through my public career, I trust, in handling matters of this kind. Now, I said a moment ago that I was going to prove that those who claim that I and the party I represent are against the interest of America's wage earners and America's union members and the union movement, that those who claim that are wrong, and that I am going to prove that they are wrong. Let me start right now. You know, we can have political speakers get up here and say, "I am doing better for you and more for you than the other fellow," and one will say it his way and the other will say it his way, and the problem with the poor voter is that he can't tell which one to believe because he usually has to simply listen to the one who speaks last, and I suppose that is the one that makes the greatest effect in some instances. But you know, in this case we don't simply have to rely on what Senator Kennedy says about the record. We don't simply have to rely on what I say about how I feel about wage earners and about a strong America economically because we do have a record and a very good one. Let me explain it to you. Fifteen years have elapsed since World War II. For 7½ years we had an administration in Washington under Mr. Truman which followed the economic policies - an administration that followed the economic policies that Senator Kennedy is advocating today. For another 7½ years we have had an administration under President Eisenhower. Incidentally, that is American democracy in action. The present administration under President Eisenhower has followed the economic policies generally that I advocate for the country, and so I say to you to those who say that our policies are against progress, against the workingman, against what people want, to look at the record, this is what you are going to find. One, do you want schools? Yes. More schools were built under the Eisenhower administration than were built in the Truman administration. As a matter of fact, we have built more than were built in 20 years when we came to office in Washington, D.C. All right. Do you want more hospitals? More hospitals were built in the Eisenhower administration than were built in the Truman administration or any other administration in the history before the Eisenhower administration. Let's get right down, however, into the area that is vitally important to every wage earner in this country, the ability to meet the bills at the end of the month. Take-home pay, family income in real dollars. Do you want that? All right. In the 7 years of the Truman administration real income of wage earners in this country went up 2 percent. In the 7 years of the Eisenhower administration real income of the wage earners of this country went up 15 percent. That is what we got. And I say to you without going into further statistics before you take the promises of my opponent, before you just take on face value without checking his chart, that anybody that opposes what he says is an enemy of progress, look at the record. Now, let's look to the future as far as economic progress is concerned. You know, Mr. Hayes has often been quoted as saying that he is a liberal, and may I say I would trust that every person in this audience is a liberal in the best sense. Let me give you a definition of the word "liberal." And this is one you may not recall. Franklin D. Roosevelt once said - and incidentally, you know, I am sort of expert at this - Franklin D. Roosevelt once said - and listen to this. It is a wonderful definition, and I agree with him. "A liberal is a man who wants to build bridges over the chasms that separate humanity from a better life." Listen again. "A liberal is a man who wants to build bridges over the chasms that separate humanity from a better life." I want to build bridges. You want to build bridges over those chasms that separate humanity from a better life, but, my friends, speaking to one of the most highly skilled groups of workers in this country and representatives of those workers, I want those bridges to be sound and strong so that they don't break down, and we end up in the chasm having to get up to the top again. And I say to you, it is easy to tell you today that the way to build bridges to a better life is to set interest rates at artificially low levels so we can have inflation and more jobs. It is easy to tell you that Government is going to be primarily responsible for producing the progress we want, but believe me, while I do not question their intention, I say that those who advocate the economic policies that we left in 1953 would not produce more progress for America than we have produced. They would produce less, and I say we should go forward with the tried and true principles that we have adopted. Now, I realize in all fairness that many of the things I have said the gentlemen and ladies in this audience agree with, and many of them you disagree with. I understand that, and I ask you only to consider it. You have been most kind to do so, and before I conclude - and I have only 7 minutes left out of the 40 minutes, Mr. Hayes, before I conclude - I want to turn to the most important issue of all, and now you people are going to think I really have a hole in my head. How can anything be more important than our jobs, our schools, our medical care and the answer is: being around to enjoy it. What is more important, and the major test, that you should apply in electing the next President of the United States is which of the two men can best lead the free world and keep the peace without surrender for America and for the free people throughout the world. Now, obviously, I think that I, with my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, I think that the two of us can do the job more effectively than can our opponents, and I understand that they think they can do it more effectively, as Senator Kennedy indicated yesterday to you. I only want a few moments to tell you what America must do, if we are going to keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. One, we must, as he indicated, have military strength that is not only second to none, but military strength so great that regardless of what any other potential enemy may have if they should launch an attack, we will be able to destroy his warmongering capabilities. Now, honest men can only disagree about our military strength. I can only tell you today that I think I know something about it and I can tell you that we are that strong today and if I am elected President, I pledge to you that America's military strength will come first of all, whatever it may cost the American people to maintain that kind of strength in the future. Along with that strength we are going to use a plan, and that means we have got to be diplomatically firm, but we have got to be nonbelligerent. Why do I say nonbelligerent? Believe me, it would be very easy for me over these past few days, simply to answer Mr. Khrushchev every time he calls me a name. But you know, it is a lot harder to keep your temper than it is to lose it. And you can't have as the President of the United States, anyone who has the luxury of losing his temper and thereby run the risk of heating up the diplomatic atmosphere to the point a nuclear explosion would be set off. Does it mean he doesn't answer back? No, but it means that the President of the United States, such as happened after Mr. Khrushchev blew up the Paris Conference, it means that the President of this country has confidence in his strength and never loses the dignity of his office by getting into the ring with Mr. Khrushchev, but maintains his strength and stands firmly on his principles as President Eisenhower did so magnificently at that conference. But may I also say, that the President, if we are to see our diplomatic strength correctly, must be nonbelligerent. He also must not make the mistake of failing to be firm. I know that there were those who criticized President Eisenhower after the Paris Conference on the grounds, why doesn't he do all he said? Why couldn't he have, for example expressed regrets or apologized for the U-2 flights, to save the conference? I will tell you why he couldn't. Those that suggested that would save the conference are naive in dealing with men like Mr. Khrushchev. Appeasement in dealing with a dictator never satisfies him. It only encourages him to ask for more and the President of the United States can never engage in that activity for that reason. And then there is another reason. May the time never come when any President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, feels he has to apologize or express regrets for defending the security of the United States. Well, now, I go back to the promise I made a few minutes ago. I am coming back to the part the American labor movement has played so magnificently in the fight for peace and freedom and the even greater part you must play in the years ahead. I have spoken of military strength. I have spoken of the need for America to be strong economically, and I have spoken of the need to have a firm diplomacy. But, my friends, all this will simply hold the line. What we must do is to mount a great offensive for the minds and hearts and the souls of men and how do you mount that offensive? You must get to the people in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, and how do you get to the people? You get to the people who talk to the people; not just the government officials, because many times they have nothing to do with the people of these countries, but to the labor leaders, to the leaders of the information media, to others in these newly developing countries abroad. That is one of the reasons that I have been so strong for increasing exchange in these areas. That is one of the reasons why I shall have some new programs to offer these areas and that is one of the reasons I congratulate you for what you have done in helping these newly developing labor unions abroad to develop in freedom rather than in slavery and as you do that, you are helping not only the cause of freedom abroad, you are serving the cause of freedom at home, because as long as any man or woman is not free any place in the world, freedom is threatened where it exists, as it does exist, thank God, in the United States of America. And so I say here today to you, as I close, I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you. I know that I have said some things that may have pleased you and some things that may have not pleased you. I respect your sincerity and your work for a better life in our country and I would only hope you would respect mine. And I would finally say that if given the opportunity, I will work for the best interests of the 180 million Americans. I will never divide Americans on any class or group or sectional basis. I will work for peace, I will work for freedom, I will work also to strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of this country so that the idealism of America will be an example for all the world to see. These things I promise you I will do. And, finally, may I say this, I recognize that this great organization has in times past, endorsed members of other parties than my own - you may this time. Whatever you may do, I want to say Mr. Hayes and all the rest, a President of the United States must always have the door of that White House open to the representatives of any great group, representing a great segment of American people such as you represent, and whatever you do, whatever decision you may make, you will have a friend in the White House of the United States. Thank you very much. (A souvenir convention briefcase was presented to Vice President Nixon.) Vice President NIXON. Ladies and gentlemen, just so there will be no mistake about the record, I was just handed this by your secretary-treasurer and he said, "Here is your convention souvenir, Mr. Vice President. There is no significance in the black bag." Thank you very much.
This is a time when thinking Democrats all over the Nation are having second thoughts. Understandably so, because the party of Schlesinger, Galbraith, and Bowles not only is not the party of Thomas Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson, but also its controlling influences openly demonstrated in Los Angeles a cavalier disregard for, even a derision and hostility toward, the great precepts and principles of the Democratic Party. The party's pledges to America, as adopted in its platform only 2 months ago, sharply reveal the distance it has moved away from what once was Democratic philosophy. We find in that platform pledges to special interest groups, blocs, and minorities rather than to all the American people. We find lavish Federal spending pledged for present programs, plus a host of costly new programs, all sworn to be accomplished without refueling inflation, or raising taxes. Every one of us, including the very men who wrote this platform, know that this is plain nonsense. When he is writing under his own name, even Mr. Galbraith has the good sense not to try to fool the American people and comes out candidly for financing his public spending by greatly increased sales taxes. We find promises of increased consumption, side by side with pledges that would increase production costs and thereby reduce markets. We find a free economy promised but also pledges to thrust the power, direction, and influence of the Federal Government deep into the heart of our economic life. We find promises of increased consumption, side by side with but joined with pledges to repeal statutes that protect workers, industries, and the public against bossism and abuse in the labor movement. We find, throughout the platform, federalism run rampant in nearly every significant area of local, State, and national life, ranging from housing to education to youth training to city administration to natural resources to labor management relations to agriculture - all floated on a sea of taxpayers' dollars. It is a bureaucratic state platform - a centralization of Federal power platform - a series of pledges that in the aggregate would debilitate State and local government in America, weaken personal liberty, and expend for the individual, by Federal decision - or by inflation, funds he feels competent, and is competent, to expend himself. In sum, it is a vote of lack of confidence in the individual and a distortion of our delicately balanced system of Federal, State, and local government. Correspondents covering his campaign report increasingly that Senator Kennedy's campaign is not getting off the ground, that he is not getting his message across to the American people. I believe it is reasonable to assume that if a man, covered as extensively as he is by press and other media, is not getting his message across it is because it is out of harmony with the mood and aspirations of the people. It is the same reason he could not get his program through the rump session of Congress even though his own party had 2-to-1 majorities in both Houses. Small wonder that upon hearing the opposition speeches and upon reading such a platform the thoughtful have second thoughts. Virginia Democrats and Virginia Republicans alike, together with millions of other Americans, worship at the shrines of two preeminent Virginia political philosophers whose teachings were for years anchors of Democratic philosophy. Thomas Jefferson, one of these great Virginians, wrote: "If we can prevent the government from wasting the labor of the people, under the pretense of caring for them, they will be happy." Woodrow Wilson left us these words: "Liberty has never come from the government. Liberty has always come from the subjects of government. The history of liberty is a history of the limitation of governmental power, not the increase of it." Neither viewpoint - Wilson's or Jefferson's - can be reconciled with the published commitments of the platform adopted by the Democratic Party at Los Angeles. But the views of these statesmen can be reconciled with the concepts to which I and Cabot Lodge and our platform subscribe. I would compress those concepts into these words: The first responsibility of the Federal Government is to keep the Nation strong and safe and free; to create a favorable climate for the rapid and sound expansion of our economy; to carry out the constitutional guarantees of full equality under law for all persons; to promote the general welfare wherever and whenever national action is necessary to accomplish common objectives. The first responsibility of State governments is to provide all those services, necessary to the welfare of our people, which can best be provided by legislatives and executives close to the people, acutely sensitive to local attitudes and needs. Our two great parties agree by and large on the great goals of America. But they disagree profoundly on how best to work toward those goals. One way mapped in the Democratic platform is the road of federalism, concentration of power, manipulation of the masses, and annihilation of the individual. This road starts in Washington, D.C., and goes to the citizen. The other is the way of putting our primary faith in individual rather than government enterprise, diffusion of power, faith in State and local competence and responsibility, and devotion to preserving individual liberty. This road starts with the citizen and goes, as necessary, to Washington. I believe absolutely in the eagerness and responsibility and capability of our people to lead their lives productively for themselves and for our country without excessive supervision from Washington. You of Roanoke and of Virginia - indeed, the great majority of our 180 million people - share that conviction, I am sure, no matter your party affiliation. And, so, I ask only this of you and your fellow citizens in this presidential campaign, as I have asked of thousands of others: Check your convictions against the parties' pledges, check them as well against the views of experience of the parties' leaders, think about the future of America in these troubled times, then work and vote for the leaders who you believe have the capability and the will to govern in keeping with your views. If you do this, we have no doubt that millions of Democrats will support our ticket because their party broke faith at Los Angeles with the great ideals and traditions of its founders.
Thank you very much, Ben Jensen, for introducing me to your constituents here in Atlantic as generously as you have, and while I am expressing thanks, may I tell all of you how much Pat and I appreciate the fact that you've been standing here quite a spell. We're running a little late, and we do want to know that we appreciate your coming out and waiting for us and delaying your lunch until we got here. As a matter of fact, I'm going to make my talking part of this program rather brief so you can get on with the eating part as well. And I see that each of you at least will have a souvenir of having had lunch with Pat and Dick, so we at least have to have some of this lunch or that won't mean anything. May I say, too, that I am very privileged to be here with my fellow candidates, our candidate for Governor and for Senator, and, of course, your own Ben Jensen, who is again a candidate for the House of Representatives. I want you to know that I am proud of my party nationally. I'm particularly proud of it here in the State of Iowa. And I commend them all to you for your consideration - not only the men that I mentioned, but those for the State legislature, the fine people I have met who are candidates here, and the others as well, whom you know. Now, on an occasion like this the problem that a candidate has is always to think of what to say when he's just got a few minutes and so many people and so much that he wants to say. And as I was driving through this beautiful Iowa countryside today - through the small towns with people out waving and the schoolchildren with their flags and signs and so forth, welcoming us as we came along - as I came near this city I was trying to think of those particular subjects that were closest to your hearts that I might discuss with you in the brief time that we have. There were a great number that came to mind. First, of course, obviously, that this is farm country and I could talk about farm policy; but I'm going to be talking a little later at Guthrie Center about that and you, of course, will all have a chance to listen on radio or see on television or read in your papers what I say there. So I won't go into that at this point. Another thing, of course everybody here in addition to being interested in farm policy is interested in our children's education and I could talk about our schools and the kind of programs that I think will best not only provide the best education - and our youngsters do get the best education in the world, believe me - not only provide the best education, but will make sure that it remains free without being controlled, without having anybody in Washington telling the people in the local communities what to teach in those communities. [Applause.] All these things of course are vitally important, and the subject that I particularly want to emphasize is related to our young people. I'm sure every time you see a group of young people like those in the high school band who played so wonderfully when we came in, or even younger ones in the grade schools, the ones for example of the ages of our two daughters - boys and girls - that the thought runs through your minds just the same as it runs through mine and my wife's - we want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves. And we want them to be able to enjoy life. We not only want them to have better jobs and to have better education and better health - all these things that all Americans are for. The only thing we disagree about is how we get them. We not only want them to have all these good things, but we want them to be around to enjoy them. And so I say to you today that as I travel throughout this country - north, east, west, south - as I visited cities, farms; as I visited all sections and parts of the country, I find that regardless of the kind of a crowd you are speaking to, one issue stands out above all the rest. And do you know what it is? Yes, a good life for us in America, and let's make it better and as best we can, but above all, let's see that we are able to enjoy that life. That means in selecting a President, let's select a man who can best keep the peace without surrender for America and extend freedom throughout the world. [Applause.] In the time that we have I cannot discuss that subject in detail. We are all for that. The question is, how can we attain it? There are certain things that we all agree upon, I am sure, that are necessary if we are going to attain it. First, if we are to keep the peace, we want to remember this: We don't threaten it. You know, the United States has engaged in three wars in this century, and in those wars in no case have we gotten an acre of territory; in no case have we gotten any concessions; all we have fought for is the right of other people to be free, and for ourselves, of course in the process, to be free. And that is the American attitude. As far as we are concerned, we want military strength, not because we want to use it against anybody else, but because we realize that if we, who want nothing from anybody else in the world, have strength - the greatest in the world - that this is a guarantee of peace, because it means that those who threaten the peace, those who have said over and over again that they intend to conquer the world by other means if possible but by war if necessary, it means that we as a peace - loving people with our tremendous strength are the guardians of peace for all the world. And so, point one is this: America today is the strongest nation in the world militarily. And America in the years ahead must continue to be. And the next President of the United States, and if I happen to be that man, this must come before every other consideration, and Americans will do what is necessary to be the guardians of peace for ourselves and for the world. [Applause.] Now, of course, it isn't just enough just to be strong. You know, as we enter the football season you can use a pretty good analogy. You can have a real good husky line, and good fast backs, and pretty good plays, but unless you've got a good coach and maybe a good quarterback, the other side may win. So in addition to our strength we've got to have the right leadership. And the right leadership means leadership that knows and has had experience in dealing with those who threaten the peace and security of the world - [applause] and recognition of a fundamental fact - that Mr. Khrushchev and the other Communist leaders don't react the way Mr. Macmillan, Mr. De Gaulle, Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Nehru, Mr. Eisenhower, the leaders of the free world react. These are ruthless men. They are men bent upon conquest. They are men who respect only strength and firmness. So we must combine our military strength with diplomatic policies that will be firm and strong, that will recognize that when you make concessions without getting concessions in return, you don't satisfy them, you don't pave the way to peace, you open the way to more demands and you pave the way to war. And so this means standing firm against the men in the Kremlin and not allowing ourselves or our friends or the friends of freedom to be pushed around any place in the world. This is the second ingredient. But in addition to being firm, you've got to combine that with another ingredient, and that is that you must use this firmness wisely. You must not respond in kind when those who are insulting, who use language as Mr. Khrushchev did at the Paris Conference - unheard of in its barbarity as against another chief of state. You don't respond in kind - why? Well, first, when you are strong and you are confident in the rightness of your course, you maintain your dignity and you don't get down in the ring with somebody who is engaging in insults. But second - there is another reason - because the next President of the United States, just as our present President, must always remember that he can never indulge in the luxury of a loss of temper for personal reasons. He must always remember that he cannot engage, and should not engage, in just a mere war of words because he personally may he insulted. He must be firm, but he must see to it that the war of words never becomes the extent that it might risk a war of another kind. And so this kind of diplomacy must go along with our armed strength. Now, these things are important. There's also something else that's important. We must strengthen the instruments for peace around the world. And I am speaking now of the United Nations, of the Organization of American States - Oh, you know, a lot of people say to me sometimes, "Why do we worry about these organizations like this? We're strong enough. Why don't we move into the Congo as Khrushchev did, unilaterally? Why don't we go into Cuba unilaterally, on our own, instead of working through all the rest of the American States as we have?" And the answer is this: The United States cannot and must not do this because if we are going to have real peace and real security in the world, we must have other free nations and other peace-loving nations working with us, rather than against us. And we must set an ideal - an ideal which they will follow - an ideal that we will work with these organizations to see that things that otherwise would be settled on the battlefield, are settled at the conference table. And may I say in that connection that I am proud to have as a colleague running with me for this office, a man who will be a partner in strengthening these organizations of which I speak, that work for peace, and one who from the standpoint of experience, I say has no peer in the world today when it comes to standing up to the men in the Kremlin and their representatives in the United Nations, and working for peace without surrender as he has, and I speak of Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations, who is my colleague. [Applause.] Now up to this point I am sure that I have spoken of things that we agree on. After all, everybody would say sure enough, we've got to be stronger than these people that threaten the peace of the world; we've got to have a firm diplomacy; we also have to avoid belligerence; we've got to strengthen the instruments that produce the peace. But, you know, all these things together, combined with the great economic strength of this country which is first in the world and will continue to remain first, provided we continue to recognize that the strength of America's economy - of its productivity - does not come from Government, but from Government's providing policies which develop to the full the creative abilities of 180 million individual free Americans. We must remember that military strength, economic strength, diplomatic firmness, all these together are not enough, because what we have to offer to the world is something more unique and more important than all this. The Communists are militarily strong. The Communists are economically becoming strong. And this is all they have to offer. But we have so much more. Let me give you one example to prove it, and I will be finished. When we visited Poland on a Sunday afternoon in Warsaw, the Government did not try to get out a crowd as I am sure our local Republican officials tried to get this crowd out here today. As a matter of fact, the Government was trying to discourage a crowd because Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before and they didn't want to have a bad comparison. But in a Communist country the word gets around in the underground when any news is trying to be kept from the people. And as a result, when we went through the streets of Warsaw behind the Iron Curtain that day, there were not thousands - there were a quarter of a million people on the streets - and they were throwing flowers, hundreds of bouquets of roses and other flowers in season, into our car. And they were singing. And they were crying, many of them with tears running down their cheeks. And they were shouting, "Long live the United States - Long live Nixon - Long live Eisenhower." Why would they do this? Not because they knew me, because they didn't know me particularly, or my wife. Not because of our military strength and our economic strength because the Russians had had that and Khrushchev hadn't gotten that kind of a reception. But because they knew what we know - that America stands for more than gross materialism, for more than military strength and economic might. We stand for moral and spiritual ideals, for the God-given dignity of men and women, for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago, and that still bring hope into the breasts of people who want peace and freedom around the world. And so I say to you today, we must strengthen our moral fiber, our idealism. We must recognize that this is our Nation's strength, and this must come, not from our leaders in Washington - they can help - but from our homes, our schools, from our churches. And all of you can help to produce it so that America can be a wonderful example of peace and freedom for the world. And finally, if I could just add this other thought. I'm sure that if we had the time to talk, a lot of folks would say, "Well, Mr. Nixon, you've traveled a lot. We've heard a lot of concern expressed about America's position in the world. Our prestige, people say, is slipping. This country is losing its strength. Economically we're standing still. The Communists are moving faster than we are. There's a great danger." What kind of a world do our young people - the young people in this band, the young people that I saw on the sides of the streets here - what kind of a world are they going to grow up to see? Well, let me tell you this. It isn't going to be a world in which everything is calm, because it's going to be a world in the process of change. We're going to have problems, but, my friends, we're going to win. We're going to win without war. And I'll tell you why. Because the people of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain are on the side of peace; they're on the side of freedom. All that we have to do to win is to maintain our strength and provide the leadership for the forces of peace and freedom which is needed. And it is that, that I ask for the opportunity today, for you to decide. [Applause.] So I say to you, consider what I say. Consider what my opponent says. And between now and November 8, make a decision. Don't make it on the basis of a personality, on the basis of a party label. When you are electing a President they aren't good enough reasons for doing it. But make it on the basis of what is best for America, what is best for the hope of the whole world to live in peace and friendship. What leadership can best provide that? And once you have decided, then go out and work and vote - not just for a man or a party, but for America and all that it stands for. And thank you again, very much. [Applause.]
Congressman Jensen, and our friends in Council Bluffs, my wife, Pat, and I want you to know how much we appreciate your welcoming us as you have. Now, as I note the time of day here, and I note so many children here in the audience - are you getting out of school because of this? [Shout of "Yes" from children in audience.] Oh, all right. Then I can figure out some of the reasons for the size of this crowd; but on the other hand, we are tremendously pleased and may I say humble in the presence of this wonderful crowd here in Council Bluffs. We are sorry to be late but we got tied up this morning on the other side of the river and consequently, it took us longer to get here than we expected. May I say that I have been looking forward to the opportunity to speak in this city for a number of years, and I'd like to tell you a little personal experience. You know, after you become a Vice President of the United States a lot of people want to come in to see you, not just because they want to see you, but because you're Vice President, of course - just like some of these people who want my autograph. Now, I was going to say that's true of everybody, and it is also true of newspaper people. But there is one newspaper editor who has been coming in to see me regularly every year on his trips to Washington from the time I was just a Congressman from a district out in California. He is probably one of the best friends that I have; he's one of my best critics - he tells me when I do things wrong as well as when I do things right - and if I had no other reason to come to Council Bluffs, it's because I got a chance to see Mr. Piper, and I'm glad he's here today. [Applause.] Now, may I say, too, that I am particularly happy to be on the platform here - Here's Mr. Piper, fine, and he's going to be coming for many more years. [Applause.] And I'm glad to be on the platform here with my friend, Ben Jensen. He's been in the Congress longer than I have, but we've served together and we've stood together, and I just hope I can do as well as he does in this district, that's all I have to say. [Applause.] I am also tremendously proud to be here with our other candidates for the Governorship of the great State of Iowa, and for the Senate, who have been introduced. I commend them to you as fine men and as people who can serve this State and this Nation in splendid fashion in the way that the people of Iowa have expected from their public servants. And now, we don't have too much time. You have been standing here a long time, I realize, because we are late, and I just want to say a word about some of the great issues that will be before us in this campaign. First may I say this to all of you of voting age - and I say this to all of these youngsters here who go home and talk to people of voting age - your mothers and fathers - the decision that you will make on November 8 this year will be one of the most important decisions you'll ever make in your life. It will be as important - perhaps even more so - than the times that you decided what job you were going to take, or what girl you were going to marry. It's going to be a tremendously important decision because it will determine the future of America and the future of all the people of the world, because America today has the responsibility, you see, of leading all the world, and consequently, in asking you to listen to me, in asking you to consider the issues, I'm not going to do what you usually hear from the candidate for public office saying, "Look me over, ladies and gentlemen. If you like me as an individual, vote for me." I'm not going to say to the Republicans here, "I'm a Republican. Vote for me because I happen to belong to the same party that you do. Vote your party." I say to you today, don't think of the personality of the man. Don't think of the party to which you belong, but think of your country; and then, you will make the decision that is best for America, because what happens [applause] because when we elect a President of the United States, we've got to put the country first, because my friends - and particularly you young people who are studying history - as you look over our history, you'll find that neither party has a monopoly on producing the great Presidents of this country. Some of them have been Republicans, some of them have been Democrats, and the reason that sometimes one is one, and others are one, is that the people have always thought of the country first, and the party second when they were electing a President - so I ask you one to do now. Now, the second thing. What is the major thing you should think about? What's the main thing that the President of the United States - the major qualification that he must have in this period? Now, obviously, if I were to talk to everybody in this crowd and go down the line I'd get a lot of different answers. Somebody might say, "Well, what I want out of my President or out of my Government is the kind of a situation in which I could have a good job." Somebody else would say, "Well, I'd like better schools." * * * Matter of fact I met a young fellow over in * * * across the river in Omaha the other day - I know there's a little rivalry here - and you know what he said? Will you make me one promise, Mr. Vice President? And I said, "Well, I don't know - What is it?" And he said, "Will you be for a 4-day week for school?" [Laughter and applause.] Well, today some people might want a 4-day week for school; other people might say that the most important thing is what kind of jobs we're going to have; whether or not we're going to have better hospitals, better schools; whether or not we're going to have a better farm program - all of these things are important, but, remember, the most important thing of all is to be around to enjoy the good job, the good school, the good hospitals that we have. So I say to you, the greatest test of your next President, and the thing you must have in mind - which one can keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. [Applause and shouts.] You know, look at these youngsters standing around me - these teen-agers and subteens, these boys and these girls - we want them to have better jobs than we have. As my dad always used to say, he never wanted to go back to the good old times. He always said, "I want a better life for my youngsters than I've had." And we want that for our youngsters; and we want their world to be a world of peace, but a world of peace with freedom. And this is what I ask you to test me on, test my opponent on, and then make your decision. Now, with regard to that decision, may I tell you what I believe. One: America must begin by being the strongest nation in the world militarily. Why? Not because we want to fight a war, but because we don't * * * because we know as long as we're strong, we will always use our strength to keep the peace and to keep anybody else from threatening it. So, point 1: I pledge to you we will keep America strong as she is today - stronger than anybody in the world so that we can keep the peace. Second: In addition to keeping America strong militarily, we must also keep the diplomacy in which we deal with the men in the Kremlin on a firm, realistic basis. We must not be belligerent because we cannot enjoy the luxury of losing our tempers - the next President certainly can't, because when he loses his temper in dealing with the men in the Kremlin, it might run the risk of setting off the world conflagration that we don't want. So the next President must be a man of judgment, a man who has had experience, and a man, above all, who knows the men in the Kremlin and the Communist leaders and knows what will work with them and what will not. And one thing that will not work with them is, you may think that they react like other people do, but, my friends, they do not. That is why the President of the United States was right when Mr. Khrushchev demanded that he apologize for the U-2 flights in Paris - was right in not doing so because it would not have satisfied Mr. Khrushchev. It would only have encouraged him to ask for more. And may I say today, may the time never come when any President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, feels that he must apologize or express regrets for defending the United States of America against surprise attack. [Applause.] Now, we must not only be strong militarily and diplomatically, but we've got to keep the economy of this country strong. We have to have better schools and better housing, better jobs with progress. How are we going to get it? Well, let me tell you this. I could tell you that the way to get it is just leave it to Washington, that Washington is going to provide the jobs and the schools and the progress we need, but that isn't the way it works in this country of ours. The way to progress in America is not through putting the responsibility on the Federal Government, but for the Federal Government to adopt policies that will stimulate the incentive and the creative ability of 180 million free Americans, just such as you here. [Applause.] And then, the third thing we must have - and this I say above all - as I see in this audience some of those who represent the great churches of our country, may I tell you that military strength is important if we are going to have peace; economic strength is important if we are going to stay ahead of the men in the Kremlin the Soviet Union, who would challenge us to competition; but above all, if America is to realize her true destiny, if we are to be really an example to peoples around the world that want freedom and want peace, we must not rest our case simply as the Communist rest theirs on gross materialism, atheistic materialism, we must not rest it simply on military strength and economic might. Let us remember that the strength of America is in her ideals, in her moral and her spiritual strength, and I say to you that cannot come from Washington either. Oh, we can talk about it, but that must come from the hearts of our people, from our schools, from our churches, from our families, and so I say to you, keep America's moral and spiritual fiber strong so that America can lead the world to peace and friendship without surrender of principle or territory in the years ahead. [Applause.] And then, finally, may I say this. There is nothing which is more inspiring to a man in public life than to see a crowd like this, knowing that in the crowd are some of the men in his own party and ladies in his own party, some who are from the other party, but all of whom care - all of whom care about their country, and about the world, and who want to come out and listen to views that they may not even agree with. And as long as this happens, America will continue to be the greatest nation in the world. And one word of faith as I close. You've heard about the weaknesses of America; you've heard about the fall off of prestige of America; you've heard that our Nation is second rate militarily, economically, morally, and spiritually * * * May I say to you today, those who preach this kind of a gospel don't know America and they don't know the world. I have seen this country. I have traveled to 50 countries abroad, and the heart of America is sound; and the people of the world, believe me, want what we want. They want peace. They want progress. But above all they want that peace and that progress with freedom recognizing the God-given dignity of men and women. And this is what we stand for. And because we're on the right side, we shall win this struggle. Finally may I say to you, then, consider what I have said, what my opponent may say, and then go out and work in this campaign for the man that you think - not that can do the best job for the party - but the one that can do the best job for America. If you vote for what's best for America, you'll also be voting for what's best for yourself, and for these children as well. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As you have just seen and heard, I've had a tremendously interesting day in Iowa. It began this morning at about 8 o'clock when I attended a breakfast at Omaha, and from there we crossed the river to Council Bluffs where we had the first of what were supposed to be four stops during the day and four meetings, but which turned out to be about eight because we found there were lots of people at some of the smaller towns that weren't on the schedule that were added as a result of their finding out that we were coming through town; but I can tell you that it was one of the most interesting and inspiring days that I've ever spent in traveling over this country either as a candidate or in my official position as the Vice President. During the day among the unscheduled stops I think the one that will perhaps stand out in my memory the most was the one at the school for the deaf, which some of you may know is on the road between Council Bluffs and, I believe, Atlantic. The students were all along the side of the road there and we pulled up our car and stopped. I got up on the hood of the ear and one of the teachers translated what I was saying into sign language for those students who were unable to read lips and you know, as I was speaking to these young people as I saw the smiles on their faces, as I heard them cheer my references to this country and its greatness, I realized how small the troubles of most of us really are. For example, a bad knee, as I had a few weeks ago, or any of the other troubles that we may have are completely insignificant compared to the troubles that some of our other fellow citizens have; and if they can have this wonderful spirit they have, certainly we can go over our troubles and get through them without too much difficulty. But during the course of the day I, of course, in addition, made a number of speeches. I had an opportunity to talk to literally hundreds - I suppose thousands - of people, hundreds individually, thousands by groups; but here on television I'm having a chance to talk to you in your homes and I appreciate your giving me this time. I know there are lots of programs you like to listen to at this prime evening hour, and the fact that you're listening indicates that you, like the people in the town squares at the various places and cities that I spoke today, and at the great plowing contest at Guthrie Center, just like they, are concerned about your future. You're concerned about the leadership America is to have. That's why you're listening to me now, and I express my appreciation to you for giving me this chance to talk to you in your homes. Now, in these excerpts of my remarks at Guthrie Center you heard a partial discussion of the farm problem. I would like to add just a word about something that I said there that tune would not permit covering in this capsule that you were able to see on television tonight. You know, I think we have put too much emphasis, as far as the so-called farm problem is concerned, on its negative aspects. Before I began to study it intensively, as I did a few months ago, I considered that this problem was one which was in an almost insoluble mess, that we had tremendous surpluses which were a terrible burden to the taxpayers and to the consumers and that the farmers weren't benefiting from these payments that were made to keep these crops in surplus because their farm income is going down, and that it seemed that this problem was just one of those political footballs that was being kicked around, for which no solution would be found. But, you know, after my study of the problem, I've reached an altogether different conclusion. I think that one of the most exciting and challenging problems that the next President of the United States will have is to make an asset out of the ability of our farmers to be the most productive farmers that civilization has ever known, make an asset out of it, make an asset out of it by making better use of these farm products, as I indicated, in our foreign policy activities, and make an asset out of it by seeing to it that our surpluses are put to productive use wherever possible, with the net result that we benefit and that the farmer is able eventually to get what he is not receiving today adequately, and that is a fair share of America's increasing prosperity. Time won't permit me to expand on this particular subject now, but I do want you to know that I am confident that a solution can be found. I am confident that this solution can be found if both Democrats and Republicans in the next Congress will work with the next President in treating this not as a political question, but treating the farm problem as one of our potential great national assets, and just to point up how very great it really is let me give you a figure that you might not have thought of. When Mr. Khrushchev was here, as you know, he visited Iowa. He went out to the Garst Farm. I talked to him after he got back to Washington and I asked him what impressed him as he traveled through the United States. There were two things that he mentioned in our conversations. One was the city of San Francisco, in my native California, which many travelers, including Mr. Khrushchev, find very attractive, but what impressed him also was the productivity of the Iowa farm which he visited; and I'll tell you why it impressed him, because I visited farming country in the Soviet Union and I know what his problems are. Did you know that approximately 7 million farmers and farmworkers in this country produce as much as 50 million farmers and farmworkers in the Soviet Union produce? That's why Mr. Khrushchev was impressed by what he saw, and that's why we must realize that what our farmers are doing and have done is a great national asset. Because of what our farmers are able to do as far as productivity is concerned, we are not only the best clothed and best fed people in the world, but we also have a tremendous advantage economically over our competitors, the Communists, because the very fact it takes only 7 million to feed and clothe us and provide a surplus for use in our foreign policy, where it takes 50 million in the Soviet Union, means that we have just that many more people to put into other productive activities. Well, so much for that subject. let me now turn to another one that I found, as a matter of fact, running through all the meetings which I addressed today. Obviously, I found that every one of the towns that I visited in Iowa, and Omaha as well, were tremendously interested in farm policy, but I also found that there wasn't a crowd to whom I spoke in which the people were not also tremendously interested, and in some instances perhaps even more interested, in foreign policy. If this seems strange, let me tell you that it isn't just characteristic of Iowa. As you know, I've been traveling all over the United States in the past few weeks. I've been clear out to Hawaii, our 50th State. I've been to Maine in the far northeast. I've been down to the south in Texas, and North Carolina and Georgia and Alabama. I've been in my own State of California, in Nevada, in Oregon and Washington, in North Dakota, in Illinois, and here I am today in Iowa. I've been before all kinds of groups, before groups of students, before groups of labor union members, before groups of farmers, and every place I go, north, east, west, and south, regardless of what the group is, I find that everybody is concerned about this one great issue, the issue that I described a moment ago as foreign policy, but an issue which can perhaps better be described by this sentence: I think that the major decision the people of the United States will be making next November 8 when they elect a President of this country and a Vice President is to decide which of the two candidates can best provide the leadership for America and for the world which will keep the peace without surrender and which will extend freedom throughout the world. Why is it that everybody is so tremendously interested in this problem? Oh, I'm sure you know, just as I do and all of these great audiences to whom I have talked. They know that we can have the best farm income that we can possibly think of; we can have the best jobs, the best schools, the best medical care, a splendid social security program, better than any of us have ever dreamed of, and all of these things at home won't mean anything at all unless we're not around to enjoy them. So, therefore, people are concerned about foreign policy. They are concerned that we have leadership that will keep the peace, so that we can enjoy this wonderful freedom we have in the United States, so we can enjoy the prosperity that we do have in the United States, which is so richly shared by most of our people. I would like to talk to you for just a few moments about that problem - keeping the peace, extending freedom. I would like to tell you how I think it can be done, and in the process, of course, I would like to indicate why I believe our ticket can better do this job than our opponents. First, in analyzing the problem, I think we all recognize that if we're going to keep the peace the United States must be the strongest nation in the world militarily. Now, this is necessary not because we ever want to use our strength aggressively against anybody else, because we don't. That's our record as a country. In the last three wars in which we have fought - World War I, World War II, and Korea - thousands of American boys have died. We've poured out billions of dollars of our wealth. For what? Not an acre of territory. Not a concession from any other person or any other nation. Simply for the right of all people to be free and for ourselves to live in peace and freedom. So, the reason we maintain this strength is to keep the peace, but in maintaining this strength let me first say that today America is the strongest nation in the world. I know there are those who raise questions about our strength, and we can never be complacent about it because new inventions are always coming along. The Soviet Union is determined to outstrip us here as well as in other fields, but I can assure you that I am convinced that both our present strength and the plans that we have for the future, combined with the kind of preparations and thinking that we can and will do to meet Soviet threats in this area in the future, will keep America stronger than the Soviet Union or any other potential enemy of peace. But this alone, of course, is not enough to keep the peace, just being militarily strong. We must combine that with the wise use of that military strength, and that means the right kind of diplomatic policy. What kind of diplomatic policy do I refer to? I mean one that is firm, one that is not naive, one that knows what the Communist is like and knows that he does not react as do the statesmen of the non-Communist world, like Mr. Macmillan, Mr. De Gaulle, Mr. Adenauer, President Eisenhower, our own President. Why do I emphasize this point? Just to give you an illustration, you recall at the recent Paris Conference which Mr. Khrushchev blew up, he said, because of the U-2 incident that a lot of people suggested that perhaps the President might have tried to have conducted himself differently. There were some on the one hand who thought that the President made a mistake in not answering back when Mr. Khrushchev insulted him. Let me say I think the President was absolutely correct in his conduct in that respect for two reasons: One, when you're confident of your strength, when you know you're right, you don't have to get down to the level of a man who insults you, as Mr. Khrushchev was insulting the President. The best way to show your attitude toward him is to maintain the dignity of your office and your country, as President Eisenhower did so magnificently on that occasion. But there were others, of course, who criticized the President after the breakup of the Paris Conference on other grounds, and this shows a naive attitude toward the Communists and the Communist mind. They suggested possibly the President should have tried to save the conference by apologizing to Mr. Khrushchev for expressing regrets that these flights had ever taken place. I say this was a naive attitude because I know Mr. Khrushchev. I think I know many of the Communist leaders around the world, and I can assure you that simply apologizing to them or expressing regrets, as they demanded, wouldn't have satisfied them. It wouldn't have saved the conference. It would only have whetted their appetite and made them ask for even more concessions. This doesn't mean that we don't negotiate with them because we must negotiate at the conference table or else we will be negotiating on the battlefield, and this we must not do; but it does mean when we negotiate with the men in the Kremlin we negotiate with hardheaded realism, just as they are hardheaded realists. We must take nothing for granted and nothing on faith, just as they will take nothing on faith. They will respect us if we negotiate this way and we will accomplish far more than being naive as to how their conduct would be. Another reason, of course, the President couldn't and shouldn't have apologized or expressed regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for these flights was that the flights were maintained, as you know, to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack, and no President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, can ever consider, of course, expressing regrets for attempting to defend this country from surprise attack. So, now, I have mentioned two things that I think are important if we are going to maintain this peace which we've had for the last 7 years under President Eisenhower's leadership. I have mentioned military strength second to none. I have also mentioned diplomatic firmness, but firmness without belligerence. But this will simply hold the line. It will defend the cause of peace. It will not extend freedom. It will not promote this cause on an affirmative basis, as we must promote it if we're going to have the kind of peace that we all want for our children. What more can we do? First of all, we've got to strengthen the instruments of peace, and I mean by that organizations like the United Nations, which has done a very effective job with a very difficult Congo situation. Just think of this: If we didn't have the United Nations today, we, the United States, would have to be trying to stop Mr. Khrushchev in the Congo; but, by working with our friends in the United Nations, we develop a threat of all peace-loving, freedom-loving people in which we work together to keep this newly developing country, this newly independent country, to permit the people of that country to develop in independence and in freedom without outside interference. So, we should try to strengthen these organizations and make them even more effective in the cause of peace, and in this respect may I say if I should be elected I will have as a partner in this enterprise a man, Henry Cabot Lodge, that I think has done one of the finest jobs - in fact, I don't think anybody in the world has done a better job - of representing the cause of peace and freedom than he has as our representative in the United Nations over the past 7 years. So, now we have military strength. We have diplomatic firmness. We have strengthening the United Nations and other organizations which will keep the peace. May I mention just two other points before I close. We also have to keep the economy of this country strong and sound and productive and prudent. A strong, prosperous farm economy is essential if the national economy is to be strong, productive, and free. The farm programs that I have announced first in this speech and in the next one in South Dakota I think will help to keep our farm economy strong and sound and will give our farmers what they do not presently get - a square deal, a deal in which they have a fair share of America's increasing prosperity. If we are to have the kind of economy that we want, may I say also that we must recognize that America's progress economically in the past has been the result not of what government in Washington has done but it's been a result primarily of what individuals, 180 million free Americans, have been doing and doing because their Government has encouraged them and stimulated them to do it. Then the final point that I would make is this: Military strength, economic strength, diplomatic policy - all of these things are important if we are to keep the peace and extend freedom, but more important than all the rest is moral strength, being on the right side, and, my friends, tonight we are on the right side. We are on the side of freedom and justice, belief in God, recognizing that every man and woman and child in this world is one who has God-given dignity and God-given rights and freedoms which no man should be allowed to take away. As I close, may I say, let us strengthen the moral fiber of this country, through the church, through the school, through our home. As I close, may I say to you that if you believe, on the basis of what I have said tonight on the basis of what you will hear during this campaign, that Henry Cabot Lodge and I are the best men to provide the leadership that America needs in these critical years to keep the peace, then will you please go out and work for us as well as vote for us, and as you work and as you vote remember: Vote not just for a man. Vote not just because you are members of our party, but vote because you believe what we stand for is best for America - and if it's best for America it will be best for you. Thank you very much.
 Let me first say that I am glad that the theme of this plowing contest is conservation - conservation of land and water. I wholeheartedly favor effective conservation programs because, simply, I believe in the future of America. Our population is growing. It is wise conservation that underwrites America by assuring future food, future fiber, future water to meet the expanding needs of tomorrow at home and throughout the world. Some of you know that for several months I have been making a careful study of the situation confronting our farm people, and in the process have met with the most knowledgeable and objective-minded people I could find. What I want to do today is to talk over with you some of my views based on this serious study. At the outset I would like this point clearly understood: The problems of farm people ought not be approached, as far too often has been the case in the past, as something to exploit for political advantage. Rather, the approach has got to be objective, and has got to be constructive. In a determined effort to find a solution the good of the farmer, not the good of politicians, has to be our steady purpose if we are ever to get anywhere. Next, I think we had better get rid of a number of wrong ideas, too widely shared, about the farm problem, before we talk about the problem itself. The first and most unfortunate mistake that many of us make is to think that farmers themselves are to blame for all our present farm problems. The time is overdue for everyone to understand that the surpluses which so long have troubled us all, farm people especially, have been built up primarily at the urging of Government itself. These surpluses are the product more of politics than of productivity - of keeping farm programs on a war footing while the Nation, fortunately, has kept the peace. Farmers responded with unreserved patriotism to the Nation's call for ever greater production during World War II and the Korean war. It is dead wrong to charge against them the politicking that in such large measure has been responsible for the accumulation of vast surpluses in government storage. Further, it is wrong to blame the farmer for the fact that Government illogically insisted upon unrealistic incentives to keep production up, while at the same time it conjured up bureaucratic controls in a futile attempt to keep production down. We need to understand - all of us - that what the farmer has done is just exactly what he has been encouraged to do by his Government. The blame for the results belongs right on those who have written the laws. Another misconception is this - that farmers live off the Public Treasury at the expense of other Americans, thereby making the public pay higher tax and food bills. No doubt about it - our present farm programs are costly and unrealistic. But the costs most people chalk up against the farmer are puffed up all out of shape, and hence are misleading. The Agriculture Department budget includes far more than payments to farmers. It includes such costs as scientific research and education, food grading, market reporting, the national forest service, water and soil conservation, school lunches, great quantities of food for needy nations. Properly, these costs should be charged to America's requirement for conservation and social welfare and to the world struggle for peace and freedom. And Americans need to understand this as well - most of the increase in today's grocery bill reflects, not payments to farmers, but modern refinements in processing, and inflation of costs all along the line. The truth, as every farmer knows, and as all other Americans need to understand, is that the price the farmer gets for what he produces is but a fraction of what the housewife has to pay at the grocery. The public has a right to worry over taxes and food costs - but it is wrong to charge these against the farmer. Some peddle a third misconception, and this one is especially insulting to farmers. It is that farm people are not very important any more because mechanization of farming has reduced their numbers. Well, in the first place, God save the Republic when we start ignoring our farmers or any other group of America's citizens; and in the second place, Americans need to understand that farming is still our biggest single industry, and more importantly, a major customer of all other industries. Farmers buy more petroleum products than any other industry. They use half as much steel as the entire automobile industry each year. It simply adds up to this - if our Nation is to be prosperous, our farmers must be prosperous. Next, I want to say a word about the mistaken impression that farmers have long been feathering their nests, so now, if things are not going too well, they should just grin and bear it. It is true that farmers have a substantial net worth; it runs about $184 billion. It is also true that farmers' assets are about eight and one-half times their liabilities. But remember this - the net income of farmers, while the Nation generally has prospered, has not been rising or even staying level; it has been going down. The bald fact is that the farmer has not shared proportionately in America's increasing prosperity. He has been getting the short end of the stick. Simple justice, not to say the national interest, demands that we develop a program that will assure him a fair return. Finally is this misconception - about the worst of all. It is that the farm situation is a hopeless, costly, and unsolvable mess. I am convinced that most of us have been looking at this problem with an attitude that is far too negative. No more exciting challenge will confront the next President and his administration than that of making a national asset, rather than a liability, out of our Nation's ability to produce more food and fiber than any other peoples on earth. When we in America begin looking at the farm situation this way, as we should, instead of seeing it as a continuing calamity, we will become truly constructive about it. This new attitude must recognize at the outset how great an asset our enormous productivity is in meeting the overriding issue of our time - the global struggle to preserve peace and human liberty. Only 7 million farm people in America produce nearly as much food and fiber, and in far better quality, as 50 million produce in Russia. Why? A really major reason is one that we tend to take for granted. It is that in America the farmer lives in freedom; in Russia and Red China farmers are peasant-slaves. They are told what to plant, when to plant, and where to plant it. They live and work not for themselves but for a cruel and tyrannical state. Mr. Khrushchev still boasts that the Communists are going to outdo America. If there are those among us who are afraid he is right, they owe it to themselves and their countrymen to see America in action on the farm. Then they need a good look inside the Soviet Union. That's the best cure I know of for cold war nerves. Chairman Khrushchev, you remember, did it the other way around. It has jangled his nerves ever since. Since he saw with his own eyes last year the production miracles which year after year are wrought in this Iowa farm country, he has made statements about America which show that even he can recognize a fact when he sees it. Incidentally, I think one of the reasons he withdrew his invitation to the President to visit the Soviet Union may have been a reluctance to let President Eisenhower see at first hand how far behind the Communists really are. Let all of us recognize, therefore, the great advantage that the skill of American farmers gives our Nation. Let us eagerly pursue this advantage by using our abundance more effectively in advancing liberty and peace. One way - and it is indispensable - to keep this advantage is to safeguard and preserve the family farm, which is at the very heart of our free agricultural system. We must never forget what our bounty means to us here at home as well as beyond our shores. To the everlasting credit of our farm people, Americans are the best fed and best clothed people on earth - not only today but in all history. Such an asset has got to be preserved. How can we best do this? First by avoiding the tendency to be too inflexible in our approach. All too often we hear that there is some one magic formula that will solve all our farm problems. Let's get our thinking straight on that point. There is no one farm problem today, there never has been. We need differing programs and differing tools to meet the kinds of problems we really face. And I repeat - let us keep in mind that the chief trouble in the past has been political. But there is a way out. Let us first examine the programs that the political opposition offers. These are simply this - a return to discredited, old programs which have never worked, plus plans like the Brannan farm program that never did fool the farmers and which, therefore, they overwhelmingly rejected. Inevitably they would lead to a farm economy completely planned and managed, not by the farmer, but by the Government. These ideas would not end our farm problems. They would fasten them on our country forever. We simply cannot allow ourselves to think in these defeatist terms. Let me suggest some basic thoughts that point the way to constructive action. First, because it was the Government, mainly, that got the farmer into the farm problem, the Government should unhesitatingly, as a matter of obligation, help indemnify him to get out. Second, I consider it likewise a governmental obligation to help the farmer protect himself against the natural and economic adversities that uniquely and oftentimes disastrously affect his livelihood. Third, real farmers should have more to say about the kinds of programs best suited to their way of life. There is a clear need for greater farmer participation in the formulation of the programs that govern them. Fourth, farmers need programs that will strengthen, not erode away, their freedom. We need programs to hasten the day when Federal bureaucrats in Washington, no matter how well intentioned, will not be telling farmers what to plant, how many acres to sow, how much to sell, and what their prices have to be. Fifth, we must - and we can - put our surpluses more constructively to work for the good both of American farmers and of all humanity. Sixth, once we devise means to consume our gigantic surpluses, production restraints can be eased and made rational and bearable. Seventh, programs are needed that will raise farm family incomes as surpluses are consumed; we cannot tolerate programs that would cut production by bankrupting the farmer. Finally, we must carefully consider the whole complex price support problem, and to that vital subject, I shall return in my second farm speech in Sioux Falls, next week. I believe that, by holding to these points, we can be confident of a bright prospect for our millions of American farmers. How, exactly, do we begin? Obviously, a No. 1 job is to work down the price-depressing surpluses which today are costing us a thousand dollars every minute just to handle and store. There are, of course, two major parts to this task - first, disposing of the surpluses we already have; second, preventing their reaccumulation. Let us today talk about the first part - using up surplus stocks. My answer to this I call Operation Consume. And what does it do? It isolates the surplus stocks from the commercial markets as completely, effectively, and quickly as we can. It uses the surpluses for constructive works. It aims at keeping farmers from being made prisoners of their own efficiency. Operation Consume is a four-part undertaking. The first is a sharp intensification of the food for peace program. This includes new and more energetic efforts among surplus-producing nations to assist the hungry people in less favored areas of the world through the United Nations. This is an effort at once practical and humanitarian. More than that, it brings our bounty directly, and more positively, into the great struggle for freedom. In its support we will continue to sell our surplus products abroad under Public Law 480. We will additionally continue using surplus foods and fibers to help meet emergencies throughout the world caused by such catastrophes as floods, droughts, earthquakes. Moreover, we should accelerate our efforts in underdeveloped nations to acquaint these millions of peoples with our multitude of farm products and their many uses. In this way, we will simultaneously build commercial markets for our farm people, as was long ago demonstrated by our experience under the 480 program. The second major part of Operation Consume is to create, for America, a strategic food reserve. These critical reserves of foods would be stored at strategic locations throughout the Nation, in forms in which they can best be preserved for long periods against the contingency of a grave national emergency, such as sudden international requirements, or any enemy attack. I am firmly convinced that in the kind of world in which we live today, we cannot risk a shortage of food. In these times, we must keep on hand large enough stocks to feed our people should our normal sources of food be destroyed. Our present wheat surplus is even now a great protection for America, for in an emergency wheat can be eaten even in its natural state. Even better, wheat can be prepared - and this I would have further developed as a matter of high priority - in ways that can protect it against contamination, preserve it for long periods, and yet keep it immediately available for human consumption. We need to move a substantial part of these surpluses into storage properly dispersed to speed their availability in time of crisis, and we must replace them periodically with fresh supplies. Next, Operation Consume will effect payments in kind from existing surpluses as part of a temporary land conservation and retirement program of which we need to achieve better balance in today's agriculture. Of course, barter payments of this kind have to be so administered as not to disturb market prices, while at the same time reducing the output of additional surpluses. We will use the surplus to use up the surplus. Finally, as part of Operation Consume, I propose an urgent exploration of the conversion of grain to protein foods for distribution at home and abroad, an approach whereby excess grain could become low-cost, bulk-canned meat, powdered milk and eggs, meanwhile giving livestock, dairy, and poultry producers throughout the country additional income. I expect this new program to be worked out and to become a significant and valuable addition to our food for peace efforts and to our school lunch and relief distribution programs. Here again there must be safeguards against disruption of normal commercial marketing channels at home and abroad as well as prudent cost controls. Aside from some domestic school lunch and relief distribution, only long-term future contracts would be used as, for instance, with CARE, religious, voluntary groups, and with such other assistance efforts as we may engage in abroad. The difficulty with our attack on the surplus problem in the past is that it has been too timid and too little. We must set as our objective a target date of 4 years using the tools that I have outlined to reduce the surplus to manageable proportion. We need to get the surplus off the farmers' back and off the Nation's back as well. It will, of course, be necessary to appropriate for these programs. But in evaluating their costs, we must take into account the present tremendous outlays that we will thereby be getting rid of as we reduce the surpluses. In other words, we must and should be willing to pay more now in order to take a big bite out of the surplus and to reach our target date, recognizing that the costs overall will be less in the long run. These are, in brief outline, the four programs of Operation Consume - a concerted effort to the critical surplus problem. As we thus move ahead, we can expect the affected farm commodity prices to move up to a more normal market relationship. Thus, we will achieve our two eagerly sought objectives: raising farm family income while relieving the Government of much of the heavy cost of carrying vast stores of unused foods. Next week in South Dakota, I will spell out the companion effort, no less important to farmers. I shall call it Operations Safeguard - a program to deal with the other major phase of our problem, that of avoiding the building up of new unmanageable surpluses. Taken together, Operation Consume and Operation Safeguard will strengthen all agriculture - an enormously powerful force against communism. There is great gratification for me in the concept that here, in these efforts, we can put the American farmers' skill and productivity more effectively at work where most needed - in the very forefront of the world struggle for freedom. Here communism cannot hope to compete. Here all humanity will clearly see the shining promise and profound meaning of liberty.
ANNOUNCER. The next President of the United States, Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Nixon. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. Hi. [Applause.] Thank you. Thank you very much. Incidentally, to have the song "California, Here I Come" played, is very appropriate in Iowa, because it is often said that most Californians were Iowans who came to California. So we thank you for that side, for welcoming us as you have so very generously. May I say, too, that it is indeed a very great privilege today for me to join with you at Guthrie Center in this event. And before I speak on the subject, which I know is of very great interest to you, I would like to pay my respects to those on the platform with me. As I see them behind me - our candidate for Governor, Norm Erbe, our candidate for the Senate, Jack Miller, your Congressman, Ben Jensen, all of our fine candidates for the Senate and for the State legislature - I am very proud of our Republican candidates here in the State of Iowa, and I suggest we give them all the hand they deserve for the service they have rendered and what they will render for the United States and for Iowa. [Applause.] My wife, Pat, and I have had a very, very wonderful day today. We started early this morning in Omaha, Nebr., and we have traveled by automobile all the way to Guthrie Center. We have driven through some of the most beautiful country in all the world, and certainly the most beautiful country in America. We also have had the opportunity to stop at several towns and cities along the way to speak in the great tradition in the town square. The school students have been out, with their American flags and their signs, indicating their preferences for the various contests for the governorship, the senatorship, and the Presidency, and we have had a chance to meet and greet literally hundreds and hundreds of citizens of this State on this trip. And it is such a trip as this that makes us realize a number of things. And one of them is this: We hear these days a lot of talk about what is wrong with the United States, about our military strength falling off, about our economic strength declining, about the fact that our prestige is supposed to be falling in various parts of the world. And there is an answer to it, to those who have lost faith in America and in our productivity, and mainly to those who have lost faith in the American individual. I say: Travel through this country, and you will realize what a great and a good land it is. [Applause.] There were so many incidents that will stay in our memory. A little 8-year-old girl in the lobby of the hotel very early this morning in Omaha, who was there to greet us with a group of her friends, singing songs and waving placards. When I shook her hand, she said, "I hope you make President, Mr. Nixon." And then she went on to say: "You know what I do? Every time I go under a bridge, I make a wish for you that you will become President of the United States." I just hope there are lots of bridges in Iowa. That is all I can say. [Applause.] Then there was another incident, another scheduled stop, one of the reasons we were a little later arriving here than we expected to be. There was a group of students along the side of the road and it was the school of the deaf, which I am sure some of you have passed on your way into Omaha. And so we stopped the car, and we greeted them, and one of the teachers translated what we had to say to those who could not read lips, by Sign language; and certainly, of all the events that will occur in these long 2 months ahead, that one will remain closest to our hearts, because we realized then how fortunate those of us who have sometimes a banged-up knee or a sore throat, and the like, really are, when we see people that are having real troubles and how they can see them through with wonderful smiles on their faces. So that event will stay with us, too, and we thank Iowa for making that possible. But most of all, we will remember, in addition to these remembrances, and others that I have mentioned, the tremendous richness that we have seen in this land of yours and of ours, and in its people. And so today I want to talk about that wealth, how we can preserve it, how we can make it even better and stronger, not only for America, but for those of you, of our farming community, who have made it possible. Now, as I stand here before you in a political year, it is quite obvious that I am interested in your support. And let's have no illusions about that, right at the outset. I want to tell you, at the beginning, that I do not offer any easy solutions to the problems that you have, that we have, as a nation. I could make all sorts of promises to you today. I could tell you that this program or that one, or this panacea or that one, was going to solve instantly the so-called farm problem that we have, so that things would be a lot better and nobody would have to pay anything for them. But today I want to talk to you as one who does not presume to be an expert about this subject, but one who believes it is his responsibility to learn about every subject of importance in which the American people are concerned and who has studied the farm problem just as hard as I can, over the last few months, particularly. I want to speak to you on that problem. Everything that I say will be the result of what I have learned by my own studies. Every word that I read will be words that I have written, and that have not been written for me. And everything that I promise will be things that I think will work and things that I intend to carry out if I am given the opportunity. They may not be all the things that some of you may want to hear, but they will be proposals that in my opinion will help, and proposals that will work. And I present them to you today in that spirit, with the hope that you will accept them in that spirit as well. And now, if I might begin, I think very appropriately, by pointing out that we, who are studying in this field of our farm problems, first have got to get rid of some misconceptions, rather broadly held about agriculture in the United States, and about our farmers and our farm families. And the first one is this: Haven't you often read or heard, and hasn't it made you boil up inside to read and hear, that the cause of the farm problem in the United States, the reason we have all these troubles, are the farmers. The farmers are to blame. And so it is well to lay that one to rest right at the outset. The farmers, of course, are not to blame for the so-called farm problem. The farmers have been responsible for becoming the most productive agricultural producers in the world today. And the farmers have been producing as much as they have not only because of a tremendously exciting technological revolution in agriculture, which enables you to produce far more to the acre than you previously could, but you have also been doing all this increase in production because the Government has urged you to do it. In other words, the farm problem is a product more of politics than of productivity. It is a problem of keeping farm programs on a war footing while the Nation, fortunately, has kept the peace. What the farmer has done is just exactly what he has been encouraged by his Government to do, during the war and since the war. And so the blame, the primary blame, for the so-called farm problem rests not on the farmers but on those who have been responsible for writing the laws under which the farmers have operated. Let's go to a second misconception. Haven't you read, and heard at times this statement: "You know, these farmers, they live pretty good and they live off the public Treasury at the expense of other Americans. And because the farmers live so well, the public is paying higher taxes and paying more for food in the grocery store." Now, here, again, what we have to realize is that while our farm programs, for reasons that we are all aware, are costly and unrealistic, the costs that most people chalk up against the farmer are puffed up all out of shape. And consequently they are misleading. Why? Because those costs include such things as food grading, which is in the interest of the public, scientific research in education, school lunches, great quantities of food for needy nations. All of these costs are included as a part of our farm program. Most of the increase in today's grocery bill reflects not payments to farmers, but modern refinements in processing, and, of course, inflation of costs all along the line. The truth is, as every farmer knows, and as all other Americans need to understand, that what the farmer gets for what he produces is but a fraction of what the housewife has to pay at the grocery. And so the conclusion here is that the public has a right to worry over taxes and food costs, but it is wrong to charge all these costs against the farmers. Now to a third misconception. This one I would imagine would be especially insulting to farmers. And it says that because of mechanization and the fact that so many people have left the farms, farmers aren't particularly important any more because there aren't too many of them, and that therefore politically the people and those running for public office shouldn't worry about them too much. Well, in the first place, of course, the assumption is wrong. We must recognize that today farming is still our biggest single industry, and more important, it is a major customer of all other nations. But clearly, apart from that, looking at the number of farmers that we have in comparison with other segments of the economy, may there never come a time in this country when we ignore one group, or any other group, of Americans, no matter how small it is, who are making a contribution to America's productivity. And that certainly is something we can all agree on as Americans today. [Applause.] In other words, let's recognize once and for all what has often been said, that if our Nation is to be prosperous, our farmers must be prosperous. And now, there is another misconception, that I will touch on just briefly. That is the impression that the farmer, after all, has been feathering his nest for a long time, and that since he has, he is doing so well with those fancy cars and all that equipment and that farm income that he should just grin and bear the situation until we get him over this presently difficult period. Well, the bald fact, of course, is, as you know, that whatever farmers may be doing today - and some do better than others - the fact is, and this is the problem that we all must rectify, that the farmer has not had his equal share in America's increasing prosperity. Let's take our wage earners in America. A 15-percent increase in the last seven and a half years in real take-home pay for the wage earners of America. The farmers have barely held their own, and in some areas have slipped off. Now when prosperity increases for the country generally, it is only right that it be shared by everybody. And that is why the farmer has a right to say that he should have different treatment than he gets today, because today, compared with others in the economy, he is getting in effect the short end of the stick. So simple justice, not to say the national interest, demands that we develop a program that will assure a square deal, a square return, for the farmers of America, as well as all of us. And now, if I could come to what to me, however, is the worst misconception of all about the farm program: What I am going to say now is going to surprise a lot of people. It may have occurred to you. It may not have occurred to a great many who have heard this on television and radio. And that misconception is that the farm problem is the most terrible problem we could possibly imagine; that it is a hopeless, costly, unavoidable mess; the farmers don't do well; the people are paying too much for what they get; and over all, there just isn't any solution to it in sight. Well, let's look at it as it really is. We have been looking at the farm problem too negatively over these past few years. We have been seeing everything that is wrong about this problem, and we have been overlooking the many things that are right about it. And I want to tell you what my attitude is. I don't think there is any more single exciting challenge that will confront the next President of the United States than that of making a national asset, rather than a national liability, out of our Nation's ability to produce more food and fiber than any other people on the face of the globe today. This is what we must do. [Applause.] I know many in this audience have traveled abroad. Probably not many of you have been to Asia, to Africa, to the Near East, to those areas of the country in which the standards of living, the per capita income, runs about one-twentieth of what it is in the poorest State of the United States. But when you visit these countries, and when you see real hunger, when you see bare subsistence, when you see people scratching out of the land just enough to feed themselves and not enough to feed those in the rest of the country, you realize how fortunate we are to be the best fed, best clothed people in the world today. And we owe that to our farmers. And all the people of America thank the farmers for making that possible. [Applause.] And then there is another aspect of this. We have got to look at this not as a continuing calamity, but we have got to look at it as something we can make really constructive steps in solving; because look at the advantage our tremendous productivity on the farm gives us in the global struggle in which we are engaged. We have heard a great deal in the past few weeks, and we are going to hear a great deal more, about the competition between the Soviet Union and the United States. And we should hear about it, because Mr. Khrushchev intends to catch us. He intends to pass us economically. When I was in the Soviet Union, I remember when we met there in that famous kitchen in Moscow, he said to me, "Mr. Vice President, I agree you are ahead of us now. But," he said, "our system is better than yours. We are moving faster than you are. And we are going to catch you pretty soon, and we are going to pass you by. And as we pass you by, we are going to wave, 'goodby.' Come along and follow us. Do as we do, and you, too, can have the good things of life that we are enjoying." It sounds rather presumptuous, doesn't it? But he means it. He is determined. But he isn't going to succeed. And I will tell you why he isn't going to succeed. One, because his system is not right, and ours is. And two, because the United States is well ahead of him economically at the present time. And three, one of the reasons we are well ahead of him is that we have a gap which the farmers of America have produced, which he can't possibly overcome. You know what it is? There are approximately 7 million, at the outside, farmers and farmworkers in America today. They produce as much food and fiber, and of better quality than 50 million farmers and farmworkers produce in the Soviet Union. There is the greatest advantage we have, economically. And that is why when Mr. Khrushchev came to the United States, this impressed him as much as anything else. Why does this happen? Because here, although we have some controls on our farm economy, production is the result of giving men freedom, rather than giving them direction and control from the state. The people and the farmers of America are freemen, rather than peasant slaves. And may any farm program that we develop be in the direction of freedom and not in the direction of slavery and Government direction from Washington, D.C. [Applause.] And I can only say that those who think that Mr. Khrushchev is right, that he is going to catch us economically, ought to look over this farm countryside, as I have and as he did. And they ought to go to the Soviet Union and look it over, as I did with my wife, Pat. That will be the best cure for cold war nerves that I know of. And it certainly gave Mr. Khrushchev a case of nerves while he was here; because, as I indicated, when he came back to Washington, this is the thing that tremendously impressed him. And I imagine that one of the reasons that he deliberately didn't want President Eisenhower to come to the Soviet Union was his reluctance to let him see how far they actually are behind him today. Well, now, having cleared up these misconceptions, let's go now to what we do about our farm program. First, we have got to have some major guidelines. One is: We must safeguard and preserve the family farm which is the very heart of our free agricultural system. And second, in developing our programs - and this I emphasize above everything else - we must not be rigid. We can't be inflexible. We have got to try some new approaches. We can't just dig in the trenches we have been in for the past 7 years and say, "Only this is right," with the other side saying, "Only this is right," and then keep fastened on the farmer something that is wrong. We need a new approach and it is to that point that I particularly talk this week in Iowa and next week in North and South Dakota when I speak there. Now having said that the approach should not be inflexible: Let us recognize, too that the farm problem just isn't one problem. It never has been. It is a number of commodities and a number of problems, and you need a different program and a different tool to deal with each one. What does our opposition offer? I will touch only briefly on that, because that is their privilege and responsibility to say. But as I read it, they offer only two things; and that is a return to discredited old programs which never have worked, plus new plans like the Brannan farm program, which never did fool the farmers, and which, therefore, they rejected. In essence, as I read what they have said to date - and I hope they change, because I would like to see both of our parties not use this as a political issue but try to find a common ground in which to find a solution. But up to this point, what our opponents seem to say is that they should have programs that would lead to a farm economy completely planned and managed, not by the farmer, but by the Government. And I submit to you today that these ideas would not end our farm problems. They would simply fasten them on our country forever. And I say we can't allow ourselves to think in these defeatist terms. So let me suggest some basic thoughts that point the way to constructive action. First, because the Government, as I indicated a few moments ago, primarily got the farmer into the farm problem, the Government must bear the cost of getting him out. Second, I consider it a Government obligation to help the farmer protect himself against the natural and economic problems that uniquely and oftentimes disastrously affect his livelihood. Third, farmers should have more to say about the kind of programs best suited to their way of life. We need greater farmer participation in the formulation of the programs of Government. The closer we can get the programs to the farmers in control and the further away from Washington in control, the better for the farmers and the better for the Nation. This certainly is my conviction. [Applause.] Fourth, the farmers need programs that will strengthen, not erode away their freedom. We need programs which will hasten the day when Federal bureaucrats in Washington, no matter how intentioned, will not be telling farmers how much to plant, how many acres to sow, how much to sell, and what their prices have to be. And fifth, we must and we can put our surpluses more constructively to work with the good both of American farmers and of all humanity in mind. More about that later. Sixth, once we do this, production restraints can be eased and made rational and bearable. And, seventh, programs are needed that will raise family farm incomes as surpluses are consumed. We cannot tolerate programs that would cut production by bankrupting the farmer. And, finally, we must carefully consider the whole complex price-support program, and to that subject I shall return in my second farm speech in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., next week. Now, looking at these points, let me say, as far as the first one is concerned, this is where we should begin. The No. 1 job is to work down the price-depressing surpluses which today are costing all Americans a thousand dollars every minute just to handle and store. Now there are two major parts to this task. First, we have got to dispose of the surpluses we already have. And, second, we have got to keep down the accumulation of surpluses on the other end of the pipeline. Now, it is the first part, "How do we dispose of the surpluses that we already have," that I particularly want to devote my remarks at this point. My answer here is what I call "Operation Consume." What does it do? It isolates the surplus stocks from the commercial markets as completely, effectively, and quickly as we can. It uses the surpluses for constructive works. It aims at keeping farmers from being made prisoners of their own efficiency. It is a four-point program. I think you will be interested in hearing it. Point 1. A sharp intensification of the food-for-peace program, including new and more energetic efforts among surplus-producing nations to assist the hungry people in less favored areas of the world through the United Nations, a program that I first announced in my speech at Minot, N. Dak. This is an effort at once practical and humanitarian. In its support, we will continue to sell our surplus products abroad under Public Law 480. Moreover, we should accelerate our efforts in underdeveloped nations to acquaint millions of people with our multitude of farm products and their many uses. Thereby we stimulate commercial markets for our farm people, as the 480 program has done so well. Point - that is point 1. Intensify the disposal of surplus foods abroad. Point 2. Create at home in America a strategic food reserve. Now, these critical reserves of food would be stored at strategic locations throughout the Nation. They must be stored in forms in which they can best be preserved for long periods against the contingency of a grave national emergency, such as sudden international requirements or an enemy attack. In the kind of a world in which we live today, we simply can't risk a shortage of food. In these times, we must keep on hand large enough stocks to feed our people should our normal sources of food be destroyed. Our present wheat surplus, for example, is even now a great protection for America, because in an emergency wheat can be eaten even in its natural state. But even better - and here is an area where I think we should engage in a research program - wheat can be prepared in a way that can protect it against contamination, preserve it for long periods, and yet keep it immediately available for human consumption. We need to move a substantial part, then, of our surpluses into storage, properly dispersed, to speed their availability in time of crisis. And we must replace them periodically with fresh supplies. The third point: "Operation Consume" will effect payments in kind from existing surpluses as part of a temporary land conservation and retirement program, of which we need to obtain better balance in today's agriculture. Of course, barter payments of this kind have to be so administered as not to disturb farm prices, while at the same time reducing the output of additional surpluses. In other words, under this program - which Congressman Hoeven, the man that I hope will be the next chairman of the Agriculture Committee of the House of Representatives, with your help, by electing more Republican Congressmen - this program, which has been sponsored by him, will use the surplus to use up the surplus. Now I come to a fourth point. This is a new one. It is one that I am sure will be of great interest to you. As part of "Operation Consume," I propose an urgent exploration of the conversion of grain to protein foods, for distribution at home and abroad. I believe this approach has real possibilities. We will put forth every effort to find ways whereby excess grain is converted into low-cost bulk canned meat, powdered milk, and eggs, meanwhile giving livestock, dairy, and poultry producers throughout the country additional income. This new program can be worked out and become a significant and valuable addition to our food-for-peace efforts and to our school lunch and relief distribution programs. Here, again, there must, of course, be safeguards against disruption of normal commercial marketing channels at home and abroad, as well as prudent cost controls. There are the four points, then - four points which are aimed at what? And here is the objective. I believe that our trouble with this surplus problem in the past has been that our programs have been too timid and too little. I suggest that what we must do is to set an objective, a target date - a target date of 4 years, in which we will use the tools that I have suggested here to reduce the surplus to manageable proportions. This way, we get the surplus off the farmers' back and off the Nation's back, as well. Of course, it will be necessary, as you will see, to appropriate money for these programs. But in evaluating their costs, we must take into account the present tremendous outlays that we will thereby be getting rid of as we reduce the surpluses. In other words, we must and should be willing to pay more now, in order to take a bigger bite out of the surplus and to reach our target date; recognizing that the costs, overall, will be less in the long run. And so there it is - "Operation Consume." A concerted effort directed to the critical surplus program. Now, at South Dakota next week I shall talk about "Operation Safeguard," a program to deal with the other major phase of our problem, that of avoiding the building up of new unmanageable surpluses. Together, "Operation Consume" on the one side, "Operation Safeguard" on the other side, I am convinced will strengthen our agriculture; it will strengthen farm income; and it will conserve this tremendous asset that we have the productivity of America's farmers, which makes us not only the best clothed, best fed people in the world, but which gives us a tremendous advantage in the struggle that is going on in the world today between the forces of freedom and the forces of communism. And now, my friends, if I could bring my remarks to a close by relating all that I have said again to the issue that I have already touched upon, at least by implication, several times. Whenever I talk to an audience like this, I am often asked, "Well, what happens?" Does a candidate for the Presidency go around the country and tell the farmers what they want to hear and then tell the labor people what they want to hear and then tell the business people what they want to hear, tell the East and the North and the South what they want to hear? And the answer is, to be perfectly honest: Of course, we always should talk about subjects primarily of interest to the particular area and the particular group to whom we may be speaking. But let me say one thing, right here. Whether it is a labor group or a farm group or a business group or any other kind of a group in America, I think it is the responsibility of one running for the Presidency of the United States, not to say just what that group may want to hear, not to play one group against the other, but to remember that he must be prepared to be President of all the people and not just the President of part of the people against other parts of the people. [Applause.] And in that connection may I say that our farm families, I find, are just as concerned about the great issue of keeping the peace, which was referred to before I came to this platform, as they are about farm income, because they know that farm income isn't going to mean a thing if they are not around to enjoy it. They know that as far as their children are concerned they want a better life for them on the farm - or in the city if they move to the city - but they want them to be able to enjoy life in peace and in freedom. And I say to you today that as I present my case on the farm program, I also present it in this other area. I am proud of the record of the Eisenhower administration, a record that has been criticized. But all the criticism in the world cannot obscure the fact that in the past 7½ years, under the leadership of President Eisenhower, we ended one war, we have kept the Nation out of other wars; and we have peace without surrender today. [Applause.] And I pledge to this group here that I shall try to follow programs in the future that will keep America stronger than any other nation militarily; that will keep us firm diplomatically in dealing with the men in the Kremlin. And I think I know something about how to deal with them and how not to deal with them. And that will keep America on the offensive around the world in the cause of peace and in the cause of freedom. But above all, may I say I would hope that as one running for the Presidency, above all I could contribute to strengthening that particular phase of our life that gives us the greatest advantage in the struggle for peace and freedom. It is not our military strength, and it is not our economic strength. It is not even the productivity of our farms. But it is the ideals of America, the moral and spiritual strength of this country, that the end will prove decisive in the struggle between freedom and communism. And I say to all of you: A President can't do this alone. This idealism, strengthening our moral fiber, must come from the people themselves. And today, as I have seen these communities, these great vast audiences in the towns of Iowa and Nebraska - and this one here today at Guthrie Center - I say the heart of America is sound; its moral fiber is strong; and America can and will lead the world to peace, with freedom and with justice. And any man who is President of this United States will know that he heads the strongest nation not only militarily and economically, but the strongest nation morally and spiritually. And for that we thank you. And so, finally, I say to you: This is my case. I ask you to consider it. I do not ask you to vote for me on the basis of personal appearance and the like. I do not ask you to vote for me because I may be of the same party. I say: Consider what I have said. Consider whether this program is best for America. And if you think it is best for America, then it will be best for you and for the cause of free men throughout the world. And on that basis only, I present the case to you. And may God be with you all the days of your life. Thank you. [Applause.]
Thank you very much, Jack Miller, for introducing me to your friends here in Red Oak, Iowa. I want all of you to know how deeply Pat and I appreciate your coming out and welcoming us, but particularly how much we want to thank you for waiting because we happen to be running late today. You find when you have a motorcade that starts at about 8:30 in the morning and with unscheduled stops along the way, that it's a little hard to keep up with the times that are set for all the stops you're supposed to make. And the fact that so many of you came and so many of you waited all this time, standing here just packed in like sardines, believe me, it makes us feel very humble in your presence; and we just want you to know we appreciate it. [Applause.] To show some of the things that make you stop, as we got down into the hotel lobby over in Omaha today at 8 o'clock in the morning just before going to our first meeting - a great breakfast there which had a tremendous attendance - there was a group of the youngest voters or prevoters I have seen. These were all under 10 years of age and they were singing songs and wearing Pat and Dick buttons, and so forth, and so on, so we thought we certainly should stop and say hello and sign an autograph or two. And one of the little girls who was there who said that she was 8 years old, I think her name was Judy Howard, particularly touched us when she said, "You know, Mr. Nixon, I hope you're elected President." She said, "Do you know what I do? Every time I go under a bridge I make a wish that you'll be elected President of the United States." [Applause.] And since that time I've been thinking of the various things we all wish on. I remember that when Pat and I were going together quite a number of years ago - not for her, of course; she's much younger than I as you know. [Laughter.] In any event when we were going together a few years ago there were two things we used to wish on. One, the first star in the evening - I bet you a lot of people here wish on the first star - that's right; and the other, I don't know whether you have this custom here or not - a white horse. It must be a pure white horse, is that right? Fine. Well, today we've been under a couple of bridges, but we've also seen a lot of good white horses so the wishes are going pretty good today as far as we are concerned. [Applause.] May I say, too, that as we came into this city of Red Oak, one of my friends in our traveling press corps asked, "Well, have you ever been here before? Have you ever heard of Red Oak, Iowa, before?" And you know he was probably expecting me to say, "Well, I've seen it on the map, but I've never been here and didn't know much about it." But I want to tell you, Red Oak is very famous in my hometown of Whittier, Calif., for a reason. I was talking to Mr. Tiffin, who used to be in the school system here - a lot of you know him, of course - and I was talking to him before and asking him: Wasn't there a boy who was a star halfback on the Red Oak High School team back in the early thirties by the name of Alvin Hutchinson? And there was. He came to Whittier College; he made little All-American there; and do you know what we called him - all the sports writers? The Red Oak Express. [Laughter and applause.] And I've often thought since then, if I could run as well in this election as Alvin Hutchinson could run for Whittier College, we'll do O.K., you can be sure of that. [Applause.] There are so many things that I would like to talk about today. Time will not permit, of course, more than touching on just a few of the things that are close to your hearts and to the hearts of all Americans as we go into this election campaign. I think perhaps I should start with the fact that this is a festival. I don't know the name of the festival. It's a little too complicated for me to figure out, but it looks to me like an autumn farm festival such as we have in many of the towns of America at this time of the year. And when we have a festival, the thing that goes through our minds most of all is a feeling of how fortunate we are for the good crops that we've had, for the good life that we live. And I want to say to all of this great audience here today, we also should feel fortunate that we live in the United States of America, the land of freedom and hope for all the world. [Applause.] And if there is one particular point that I would like to emphasize, if there is one great concern that the next President of the United States, above everything else, must have in his mind and in his heart and in his soul, it must be to preserve the freedom that we have, the great ideals that make towns like this and festivals like this so memorable, and also to preserve peace in the world so that we can have our young people grow up in a world of peace with freedom. Now, a lot of people, l know, could well raise the question as to whether there are other things that are more important as far as this election campaign is concerned than programs that will keep the peace and extend freedom and keep freedom in this country. And I certainly would reply by saying that other things also are very important: We want better schools in America; we want better health care in America available to all of our citizens; we want better jobs for our people; we also want to see the income of our farm families participate in the tremendously increasing prosperity which Americans are enjoying. But, above all, my friends, we want to see these young people, these schoolchildren who by the thousands we have seen along the streets of these Iowa towns and cities today, and who are here by the thousands, we want to see that they grow up to enjoy all these other good things - that they do have a life of peace for themselves and for the world. And so I urge to all of you today, all of you as you make the decision - this tremendously important decision that you will make on November 8, that, above everything else, you remember this and consider this: Which of the candidates can best develop the programs and the policies that will keep peace, that will keep it without surrender, that will extend freedom, and, at the same time, will continue to develop the progress which will mean a better life for Americans here at home. If you keep this in mind, America will be the better for it. And I ask you to keep it in mind as you vote, not only for the Presidency, for which I am a candidate, but also as you vote for the senatorship - and may I say in that connection that I am very proud to have the opportunity to be on the platform here with the man who introduced me, who will make a fine colleague of Bourke Hickenlooper, and Bourke Hickenlooper is one of the outstanding Senators ever to come to Washington, as all Iowans know [applause], as you vote for your Congressman, as you vote for our splendid candidate for the governorship with whom I have had the chance to campaign for the first time today, and who will give to Iowa that great tradition of Republican Governors which has been established in the past and which he will bring back to this State, I am confident, with your help on November 8 [applause]; but as you make decisions in all of these offices, but particularly as you decide for President, my friends, may I say to you, don't think of the personality of the man, don't think of the party label which he has, because these things, while they mean something, don't go to the heart of the problem; think of what is beneath the label, think of what is best for America, and make your decision on that basis. Now if I might say in a word what I believe can preserve the peace, the kind of policies that I believe would build America if we are given the opportunity to serve in the capacity for which we are running. First of all, we've got to keep America the strongest nation in the world, and we must be prepared to pay whatever is necessary to do that. And we must do this not because we want to use our strength against anybody else, because Americans have fought three wars in this century and we haven't got an acre of territory to show for it, we don't have a concession from another country to show for it; we have fought wars to defend our own freedom and to defend the freedom of others throughout the world. And the reason that we maintain strength today - and we must maintain it - is because we want peace and freedom, not only for ourselves, but for others as well. I know that we need that kind of strength because I know the men in the Kremlin. I know how tough they are. And I know that all that they respect is strength. America must never be in a position where her President goes to an international conference and where the man on the other side of the conference table can look him in the eye and say, in effect, "We are stronger than you are." That is not the case today, and if I have anything to say about it, it will never be the case in the future as far as America is concerned. We will continue to be the strongest nation in the world. [Applause.) With that military strength we need diplomatic firmness; not the firmness of anger, of stirring up trouble, of answering insults with insults, because when you are a strong, confident country you don't have to do that, but the firmness which stands on principle and which says to the men in the Kremlin or to any others who threaten peace and freedom, that we will not use aggressive tactics against you, but we will not allow ourselves or those who stand for freedom anyplace in the world to be pushed around. This we must make clear to the whole world. And then in addition to that we need economic strength. And do you know where we get that? We get it from all of you - from all of the American people. And nothing is more important to that strength than our farm communities in this country, because without that farm strength that we have - the almost incredible productivity of America's farmer - we would have a problem keeping up with the Soviet Union economically and staying ahead, as far ahead as we are. But one of the greatest advantages we have in this struggle is that today 7 million American farmers and farmworkers produce as much as it take 50 million to produce in the Soviet Union; and with this advantage we do and are able to maintain the gap with the Soviet Union as far as our economic progress is concerned. How do we continue to maintain it? By recognizing a fundamental principle: That the strength and the reason for progress in America comes not from what the Federal Government does, or the State government for that matter, but that strength and the progress of this country come from policies which will encourage and stimulate the productive and creative energies of 180 million free, individual Americans. This we must never forget. And if we don't forget it, America will continue to be first in the world economically, as she is today. [Applause]. And then there is the final thought that I would leave with you. With this economic strength that we have, and the military strength, and the diplomatic strength - all of which will extend the cause of freedom and peace - we need above all to have the moral and spiritual strength which is our greatest advantage over the enemies of freedom. Why do I say that? Because all they offer to the world is military strength and their economic capacity. They don't believe in God. They don't believe that the freedoms that men have do not come from men, but come from God. And because they do not have such beliefs, and because they present their case on purely materialistic grounds, America must remember that our greatest strength is in our moral and spiritual ideals and because those ideals are our greatest strength, it means that you, the people of this country, can do the most to preserve it. Believe me, somebody in Washington - he alone cannot keep up the moral and spiritual strength of this country. That must come from the people, from the home, from the church, from the community - like this one in which we are appearing today. And so I say to you today as I stand here and I look over this crowd, having passed through some of the richest farmlands in America, I have a great deal of faith about our country's future. Oh, we've got problems, and they are very grave ones. We can't be complacent about them, and we've got to continue to work on our farm problems and our other economic problems. We've got to continue constantly to root out any of the influences that weaken the moral and spiritual strength of this country. We must continue to emphasize those things that unite Americans rather than those things that divide them. And a President of the United States must be one who does not say I'm for one group against another, for a labor group against management, for farm folks against city folks; he must be President of all the people, and this I pledge to you will be my responsibility if I have the opportunity to serve in that office. But I have faith today that the future for our children - so many of whom are here - is going to be a good one. And it's going to be a good one because the heart of America is sound, because the people of the world, I can tell you, want peace and they want freedom if only we give them the leadership which enables them to be for it; and because of that faith and your faith, I am confident of the future of our children. And so with that, may I thank you again for coming and may I urge you on November 8 to go to the polls; vote for the men that you think, apart from party, that will give America the leadership it needs in these critical periods. If you make your decision on that basis, I am confident it will be the best decision for America, and the best decision for you, for our children, for all of us. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, would you care to forecast, sir, whether the television debates will have more effect on the outcome of the election than the personal campaigns of yourself and Senator Kennedy? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question is: Would I care to forecast whether the television debates between Senator Kennedy and myself might have more effect on the election outcome than the personal campaigning by the candidates? It's very difficult to say what really does affect the outcome of an election. I would say that these joint appearances will have a massive impact because of the number of people who will see them. Whether they want to see them or not, the fact they are on three networks means they have to tune in to an independent station in order not to see them. Whether or not they have more effect than a personal campaign, however, will depend on whether one candidate or the other does much better in the debates. What could happen, of course, and what usually happens in these cases, is that the debates only solidify the support that each candidate had before they started, but I would say the debates will have a beneficial effect apart from the fact that they may influence voters one way or the other. I think the beneficial effect is in creating tremendous interest in the election and in bringing out a vote - big vote - and I think in that respect it will be beneficial. I think the vote will be much larger because of the debates. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, as you go around the country you say well-intentioned people were wrong in advocating that President Eisenhower express regrets to Khrushchev at the time of the U-2 incident. You have indicated that one of those persons is Senator Kennedy. Who do you think the others are? Would you identify them, sir? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think that the same view was expressed by certain observers in the press, certain observers in radio, whose names I don't think it would be particularly constructive to mention, but this was not a view espoused only by Senator Kennedy. There were others who felt that the President might have been able to have saved the conference by acceding to Mr. Khrushchev's request that he express regrets for the U-2 flights, and I want to make clear that he was not the only one who held that view. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, does the speech tonight mark a turning point? Are you going to comment directly on the statements by Senator Kennedy during the campaign? I mean you are attacking a statement tonight that he made this week. Are you going to continue to do that? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think it is the responsibility of both Senator Kennedy and myself to take notice of any statements which raise a major issue and in which the statement made is in disagreement with what we believe. The reason that I selected this particular statement of Senator Kennedy was that I thought it was an unfortunate statement and I did not think that it should go without reply. As far as the balance of the campaign is concerned, it will depend solely on whether or not I think a statement deserves a reply. It will not be a case, of course, of commenting on everything he says, just as he, of course, does not comment on everything I say. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, Senator Kennedy says you misquoted - in effect, distorted - some Labor Day remarks of his in which you quoted him as saying, "What the American prolabor movement wants for America is what I want for America and what the American labor movement opposes I oppose." Is that a direct quote from his or a paraphrase? The VICE PRESIDENT. Did Senator Kennedy raise this point? QUESTION. Yes. The VICE PRESIDENT. Senator Kennedy raised the point that he was misquoted with regard to a statement made before the labor rally in Detroit in which I stated in St. Louis - and I was reading from a newspaper column - that "what the American labor movement wants for America, I want for America and what the American labor movement opposes, I oppose." The column from which I read was Mr. Roscoe Drummond's report in the New York Herald Tribune and the Washington Post. The same quote was used in Life magazine, and apparently this was generally the impression of those who covered Senator Kennedy, that this is what he had said. I can only say that if he believes that there are some respects in which what the American labor movement stands for he does oppose, he should say so, because the very day that he made this statement in Detroit the CIO, under Mr. Reuther's direction, issued a report to the effect that they had examined Senator Kennedy's record; they had compared it with 33 key issues since the time he came to the House of Representatives in which the CIO had taken a position and that he had voted the way the CIO wanted 33 times, 33 times right, and had not voted against them once. So, I would suggest if Senator Kennedy feels that he was misquoted he should indicate, first, where he does disagree with the position of the labor leaders, particularly of the CIO-AFL who have endorsed him. I stand on what I said because I would only rely on the reports of what I considered to be responsible newsmen covering him, and the words I read were an exact quote. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in your Life magazine article on national purpose, you stated that we have a bigger imagination of youth. How can teen-agers train and apply this vigor and imagination to fulfill our part as adult citizens? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question is that I indicated in my Life article on national purpose that we, as a Nation have a magazine bigger imagination of youth. How can teen-agers and their activities contribute to this imagination and drive which youth can give to a nation? I would say that one of the best ways they contribute is through the activities you are presently engaged in, that is, in showing a much greater interest in political affairs, and particularly in world affairs, than previously had been the case. I have often said - and I get questions on this at press conferences - with all the talk about things wrong with American youth these days, what has impressed me is that the young people of high school and college age have a great deal more interest in and understanding of political affairs and world affairs than I had when I was going to school. This is a tribute to their teachers. It's a tribute to them. The other thing I would add is this: I think that young people particularly can contribute to the fight against prejudice in this country. Young people have very few prejudices. They are not born with any and they only acquire them as they get older, and as they come out of schools and go into their communities they can contribute to developing the public attitudes in their communities wherever they go against unwarranted prejudice of any type. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, Senator Kennedy has said he would resign as President rather than let his religious beliefs interfere with his duties. Mr. Vice President, would you, as a Quaker, feel that you should resign in the event of war while you were President? The VICE PRESIDENT. I have already replied to that question in previous press conferences. So, consequently, I will follow my rule that I have previously announced, that I did not think that religion was an appropriate issue in this campaign for either Senator Kennedy or myself, and that any comments, even in answer to questions, which I understand, and I understand why the question was asked, would only tend to raise an issue which should not be raised. So, since I have answered previously, and the record will show what I have said, I will decline comment on that or any other questions which raise Senator Kennedy's religion or my own. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, would it violate your rule to comment on the report in which Senator Johnson is reported to have said in Washington this morning that he was receiving letters questioning your fitness to serve as President because of your Quaker faith? The VICE PRESIDENT. If I answered the question, it would simply put it in the headlines, and I think that, on its face, the question is so ridiculous, the charge ridiculous, that I will not comment on it. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I would like to press you on that same score in a different way, sir. Senator Johnson was quoted as saying yesterday he had gotten a lot of mail complaining about your Quaker religion. The question I would like to ask you is: Have you gotten any mail of that kind? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I can answer that question perfectly. I have had letters from Quakers complaining about the fact I am not a pacifist, and I have had letters from non-Quakers complaining about the fact that I am a Quaker. So, I am in both sides of this issue. QUESTION. What are your views on cooperatives, and do you have any proposals regarding their tax status? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question: What are my views with regard to cooperatives? Do I have any proposals with regard to their tax status? My views are - and I assume you were referring to the farmer-producer cooperatives as distinguished from the consumer cooperatives. QUESTION. Both. The VICE PRESIDENT. Both. First, with regard to the farmer-producer cooperatives, my views are that they are essential for purposes of helping the farmers close the gap between the prices they receive for their products on the farm and the prices the housewife has to pay in the store. I believe that as long as those cooperatives engage in activities that are directly related to that purpose and not in activities which are completely extraneous, and thereby competitive with private business, there is no tax problem of consequence, and I would not advocate a modification of the tax treatment that they receive when they stay in the fields for which they are properly formed. As far as consumer cooperatives are concerned, strict consumer cooperatives, not connected with the activities of producers and farmers, I believe that consumer cooperatives should not have a special tax status which enables them to compete unfairly with private business which also may be in the same field. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, may I go back to your quotation which we were given this afternoon dealing with what Mr. Kennedy may or may not have said: "My opponent has just said that his visit" - and I take it you mean Mr. Khrushchev's visit - "as the Soviet chief of delegation to the United Nations means that the cold war is being fought within 19 miles of the Bergen Mall of New Jersey.'" Do I understand your answer before to have been that it was not within 12 miles of the United States and that Mr. Khrushchev was not coming to the United Nations as part of his continuing campaign against us in the cold war? The VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sylvester, I think you are commenting on one question and I was answering another one. The first question, you recall, was not on that, but on my speech at St. Louis in which we were commenting upon Mr. Kennedy's statement with regard to labor. Now as far as that particular question is concerned, what was your particular concern? QUESTION. My question is: Is it your point of view that Mr. Khrushchev is not coming to the United Nations as part of his continuing campaign against us in the cold war? The VICE PRESIDENT. It certainly is not. I simply meant by that the fact that Mr. Khrushchev is coming to the United Nations does not change the situation with regard to the cold war. It is not something new. Mr. Khrushchev has always had the right to come to the United Nations as chief of state, and the fact that he is coming does not mean that we, therefore, have done something wrong in our foreign policy, as the quote seems to imply, and that now the cold war is much closer to us than it otherwise would have been. We could not and we should not have attempted to stop Mr. Khrushchev from coming to the United Nations, and I am sure if Mr. Kennedy had thought it through he would never have made this statement. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, to carry that a step further, could you clarify it in the sense of telling us whether or not you think there should be some ground rule or rule of restriction on the extent of comment on Mr. Khrushchev during this United Nations session? The VICE PRESIDENT. I can only say, Mr. Theis, I think that's up to each candidate, and I observe Senator Kennedy will recognize, as he has already indicated, I thought, in a very constructive statement, that this is no time for us to allow Mr. Khrushchev to divide us. I agree with Mr. Kennedy in his statement of that, and I would say that, in the light of his statement in that respect, that would indicate that he recognizes, as I do, that it is important while Mr. Khrushchev is here visiting the United Nations that both he and I recognize that neither of us has been elected yet, and President Eisenhower is still President and that any statements with regard to Mr. Khrushchev, any positions with regard to Mr. Khrushchev, must, in the first instance, be made by President Eisenhower. As far as I'm concerned, I intend to make no comment upon Mr. Khrushchev's statements here or upon his activities here unless and until the President has indicated what line he believes would be most constructive from the standpoint of U.S. foreign policy for which he has the responsibility. That's the reason, incidentally, I have made it very clear that I will, under no circumstances, accede to a suggestion I should meet with Mr. Khrushchev along with Senator Kennedy, that we should call on him, while he is here at the United Nations. I think it would be very much out of place for two candidates of the Presidency to go call on Mr. Khrushchev or any other head of state, for that matter, or head of government, when they attend a session of the United Nations. We have to recognize the fact that President Eisenhower has that responsibility and for us to call on him without, in effect, being told by the President, I think, could be very harmful to U.S. foreign policy. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, are you implying you are going to hold a self-imposed moratorium on talk about Mr. Khrushchev while he is here? The VICE PRESIDENT. I couldn't quite hear you, Mr. Ross. QUESTION. Sir, are you implying that you are going to impose upon yourself a moratorium on talk about Mr. Khrushchev while he is here? The VICE PRESIDENT. I indicated very clearly, I thought, it would be inappropriate to comment upon Mr. Khrushchev's statements that he makes while he is here and on his activities while he is here. As far as what Mr. Khrushchev has said previously, as to the positions that he has taken, as to his waging of cold-war activities against the United States, I don't think that the presidential candidate should - and I certainly do not intend to - quit talking about it while he is here. Our campaign must go ahead, and the American people must be informed of where Mr. Kennedy and I stand with regard to dealing with Mr. Khrushchev. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, the other day you made a statement, I believe, along this line: that newspaper reporters had reported that the Kennedy campaign had not gotten off the ground. Do you consider that you are lengthening your lead over Kennedy at the present time? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question was, as I understand it, that I had indicated that newspaper reports - and not all of them, of course; I said that some reports - indicate that his campaign had not been getting across. Do I, therefore, believe I am lengthening my lead over him? Let me say that I consider the race to be even at the present time. I think it is so close that, while I think we are doing very well at this stage in the campaign, I would, under no circumstances, say that we are moving ahead or that he is moving ahead. I think at this point in the campaign the lead will fluctuate several times before you get to the last critical 2 weeks. I think there hasn't been much change in the last 2 weeks. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, Senator Kennedy today in North Carolina called your farm plan the Benson-Nixon plan. Did any part of the program come from Benson or did he advise you in any way regarding the farm plan you presented yesterday? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think I heard it all. As I understand it, Senator Kennedy is supposed to have said today in North Carolina that my farm program announced yesterday was the Benson-Nixon plan and your question was--- QUESTION. Did Benson play any part? The VICE PRESIDENT. Did Benson play any part in the development of the program? QUESTION. In developing the program. The VICE PRESIDENT. The answer is, he did not. This program was developed as a result of consultation with my farm advisers. I had professional advice from the professional staff of the Department of Agriculture. I called upon them, among others, but I did not discuss the program with Secretary Benson. As far as this program is concerned, as those who will read it carefully will note, it has in it, in some respects, some new proposals which Secretary Benson has not himself advocated. I don't know whether he would approve of them or not. They were not cleared with him. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, 2 years ago you came into Minnesota to urge the reelection of Senator Thye to the Senate and at that time you said that Washington is big enough for both Senator Thye and Secretary Benson, even though then Senator Thye had disapproved somewhat of Secretary Benson's program. What has changed your mind about Secretary Benson? Apparently you don't think there is room for him in Washington any more. The VICE PRESIDENT. What has changed my mind is the fact that Secretary Benson, who I again reiterate is one of the most dedicated public servants it's been my privilege to know, one who has in his own mind, I'm sure, the interests of the Nation and the farmers at heart, has not had the ability and has not had the success in getting a program through, and that means that he has not been able to get the support of farmers and the people, and of course that means the Congress, for a program. Now, as I have often said, what is most wrong is the present program. We must not leave it where it is because, if we do, we are continuing a program that simply piles up costs and surpluses and does not help farm income. In certain cases, it depresses it. So, therefore, I think we need a new approach. I think we need new leadership which will break the bottleneck between the legislative and the executive that has existed, and that's why I have indicated my views about the program and why I have also indicated I think we need a new leadership in the Department. QUESTION. Do you think there is bound to be a better way to run for the Presidency than you and Mr. Kennedy have devised - or is it necessary to go on these cross-country trips that wear each of you out so much? The VICE PRESIDENT. That question is so good I want to repeat it. Do I think there is bound to be a better way to run for the Presidency than Senator Kennedy and I have devised or do we have to continue to go on these cross-country junkets and appear on television right snappy, as of a time like this? The answer is, of course, that neither Senator Kennedy nor I, as original as we are, devised this method of campaigning, and I'm sure he would agree with me that there ought to be a change, but I rather doubt there will be. I say there ought to be, from a personal standpoint, because this kind of campaigning is terribly wearing and tearing on candidates, as well as the press; but our problem, however, is that I don't know of any other way to get the candidates known to the people and their views communicated. So, both he and I are going to have to suffer through it and continue to talk until we get hoarse because the purpose of the campaign, of course, is to let as many people as possible see the candidates, not only on television, as they are seeing this press conference, but also in person. So, while from a personal standpoint I think there ought to be a law against it, I wouldn't vote for such a law if somebody put it up. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I represent a religious newspaper. So I presume I have a religious question, but you have discussed it before as a candidate for nomination, sir, and I wonder if a little clarification might be in order. In April, speaking in Washington, you said: "If the undeveloped nations seek birth control information from the U.S., we should give it to them." You were also reported to have said this was in line with what President Eisenhower has said; but, according to the press reports of what the President had said earlier, he had declared that distribution of birth control information was not a proper governmental activity. Do you feel clarification is necessary here or is there an inconsistency? The VICE PRESIDENT. I shall be glad to clarify it because I think the issue is one that was subject to some confusion. My position - and this was, as I recall, at a press conference I had before a group of religious editors, in which my statement was made in answer to a question. QUESTION. That's correct. The VICE PRESIDENT. My position was - and is - that, under no circumstances should the United States take the initiative in attempting to attach birth control conditions on any foreign assistance program. Under no conditions, under no circumstances, should the United States attempt to get foreign countries, clearly apart from the foreign aid program, to adopt methods of population control. I stated that as part of my answer there for this reason: Having visited most of these countries, I realize they are, above all, people very proud of their traditions and people who would resent deeply any attempt on the part of another nation to interfere in their internal affairs - and particularly one that involves, in some respects, for these countries, religious consideration - because, as I pointed out also when I answered that question in April, Mahatma Ghandi himself has indicated - and the Indians, the people of India, still with good reason were with him virtually - that birth control, in his opinion was a sin against God. Now, what I did say, however, was that the problem of population control was one that could not be ignored and that if people in countries, the newly developing countries, where there was an acute problem, on their own determined to institute a program of information or otherwise in this field, the United States should not refuse to furnish information that they requested, but that information would be furnished only if they took the initiative, only if they requested it, and would not be part of or a condition of any foreign aid program. That was the way I answered the question. That is my position. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, if the Soviet Union's military forces or technical teams were to move back into the Congo, would you advocate any counteraction by the western nations, the western forces? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question is: If the Soviet Union's military forces were to move back to the Congo, would I advocate any counteraction on behalf of the United Nations - is that it? - or the United States? QUESTION. Or by the western forces. The VICE PRESIDENT. My answer is that the United States position should be one of supporting the United Nations to the hilt in the Congo. I think it would be most unfortunate if it became necessary for us to do anything unilaterally or for us to have to resort to action with a group outside the United Nations. I am confident if we can, however, back the United Nations, that this means that the Soviet Union will have to back down in the Congo. I think what we have done to date has been appropriate. I think we should continue to support the United Nations in whatever is necessary to see that the people of the Congo have a right to select their own leadership without the Soviet Union interfering.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your welcome and may I thank all of those who have participated in this program for their very kind words and for the work they have done in arranging this meeting today. I have been looking forward to coming back to Sioux City for a number of reasons - one of them, of course, somewhat personal. You know in sports, any kind of a contest whether it's baseball, or football, or anything like that, you kind of get an idea sometimes that luck plays a part. When a certain play works one time you think maybe it may help you another time. And the same is true to a certain extent in politics. You like to repeat the things that worked out before. I was here first in this auditorium in 1952 - I think one of the first meetings ever held in it. I was here next in 1956 and I'm here again in 1960. We won in 1952. We won in 1956. Three is a charm; we're going to win in 1960, too. [Cheers.] Now I didn't think it was possible to top the two meetings we had those years, particularly when we were coming in the middle of the day and Saturday when I suppose a lot of people would like to be out hunting or out with some sort of recreation on a weekend - beginning it. And to have this wonderful crowd, which I think tops the crowds in 1952 and 1956, if that was possible, really warms our hearts on our last meeting in Iowa on this swing. And we thank you, therefore, for making it such a wonderful meeting. We thank the bands and all of the organizations that have participated. I just wish we could meet each of you personally and tell you how deeply we appreciate your giving your time to us as you have. There are other reasons too, incidentally. Coming back to Sioux City is something I've been looking forward to. Every year Charlie Hoeven has a party in Washington. Now whoever is elected Vice President isn't going to have any difficulty getting invitations to parties, I can assure you. The problem is to know which ones that you don't have to go to so that you'll have enough time to spend at least one night a week with your family. But there is one party that I never miss and that is the party that Charlie Hoeven has in which the Sioux City Chamber of Commerce comes down and has steaks. [Applause.] I see Fred Seaton and Bourke Hickenlooper clapping over there too because they know what I'm going to talk about. Each year they've been promising that they're going to bring us a steak that we can really finish off and eat. This year they said they had small steaks. I couldn't see the plate for the steak, it was that big. And all I can say is that it's one of the most enjoyable functions we've ever had. The Democrats and Republicans of the House and Senate Agricultural Committees come. The leaders of both parties come. And it's a time when we always appreciate this great city in the heart of America and I want to express appreciation to all of you who have made it possible. May I say this, Charlie, that if you have a Sioux City steak feed next year, however this election comes out I hope to be invited in Washington, D.C. [Applause.] Then, of course, the other reasons that I am happy to be here I think are quite obvious to you. The fact that this is Charlie Hoeven's hometown, or home district. He has, as you know, represented you so magnificently but more than that, he's represented his party in the Nation so splendidly, particularly in the field of agriculture. I made a speech yesterday in Guthrie Center, Iowa, and I'm going to make another one next week in South Dakota, on farm programs. I am setting forth in these two speeches some proposals, new proposals, to deal with the farm program that I think will make an asset rather than a liability out of the ability of the farmers of America to produce more than any farmers in the world have ever produced and to make us the richest country in the world from the standpoint of their tremendous production. But let me say, all the programs that I might advocate aren't going to mean a thing unless we can get them through the Congress. I believe this problem is so important that it should be taken up very early in the next Congress so that the decisions on the program can be made having in mind farmers' plans for their 1961 crops. But in order to get early action in the next Congress, we're going to have to have just as much support as we possibly can from those who will stand for this program. Now, the fact that we will have received a mandate in effect from the people by electing the national ticket will get us some of that support. But it would also help immensely if we could have in the House enough Republicans, that Charlie Hoeven of this district was the chairman rather than the minority member and leader of the House Agricultural Committee. So I hope that that's what happens. [Applause.] Now, I had a lot of nice things to say about your own Jack Miller. But I was listening out there in the wings and everything that I was going to say has already been said. I only add this: Bourke Hickenlooper has been one of my closest advisers since I have been a candidate for office and when I first came to the Senate he was one with whom I often consulted, not only on agricultural matters but particularly in matters involving foreign affairs where, as you know, he has had a tremendous amount of experience, and in the field of atomic energy where he is one of the few acknowledged experts in the House and in the Senate of the United States. And certainly he would agree with me when I say that we have a very thin line, a very courageous line of Republican Senators at the present time in the U.S. Senate and we need to have with Bourke Hickenlooper to work with him as Tom Martin has worked with him in the past 6 years this young, vigorous, intelligent man from your own city, a man who can bring great articulate ability to the greatest debating society that the world has ever seen - and I'm not speaking just of length but I trust also of ability in the U.S. Senate - but a man also that can bring expertness in the tax field. And there isn't any more important field that the Senate takes up. So I urge to you a tremendous vote of confidence for your own Jack Miller so that we can have him down there in Washington working with Bourke Hickenlooper in the next Senate of the United States. [Applause.] Now as you folks all know, this has been Iowa day as far as Pat and I are concerned. It really started 24 hours ago in Omaha, Nebr., and incidentally, I understand that because of the strategic location of Sioux City that we have people from Nebraska here, and South Dakota as well. And we welcome you and what I say is [applause] thank you very much. I think there are some over there. Now in traveling from Omaha, Nebr., yesterday morning through the heartland of Iowa to Des Moines, and then flying by plane today to this great city in Iowa, we've had an opportunity to talk literally to thousands of people and persons, as we are talking today. We've had an opportunity to meet hundreds and shake hands, chat with them briefly. I've had a chance to be on television to speak to the people of Iowa through the television last night. And as I have talked and as I have had the opportunity to discuss issues with the people of this State, I have reached some conclusions with regard to the issues in which you are primarily interested. And I'd like to discuss those issues today with you if I might, not in terms of my party's affiliation, not in terms simply of saying, as is usually the case, I am a Republican, vote Republican if you're a Republican because this happens to be a Republican district. But I am going to present the case in this way. I'd like for everybody in this great audience for just a few minutes, as long as I'm talking, to forget whether you're a Republican or a Democrat or an independent. I would like for you to think only of the fact that you're an American citizen and that you're a very powerful person with the most powerful weapon that the world has ever known in your hands - and that's the ability to go into a polling booth next November the 8 and put an X after the name of the man who will run, and who will be the next President of the United States, as well as the next Senator, and Congressman, and Governor. And incidentally, may I say I'm tremendously pleased with the fine candidate we have for Governor here and your candidates for State office. I share your approval of them and I expect Iowa to return to the Republican fold for Governor in this State in this election. [Applause.] But as you go into that polling booth, as I have indicated, think of yourself as an American citizen with this great power in your hands to determine who will lead America and who will lead the free world in the next 4 years. And then as you determine that, ask yourself some questions. What do you want from your Government in Washington? What do you want from the President of the United States? What leadership do you think will be best for you? And that, of course, means what leadership will be best for America. And then make your decision today and in the weeks ahead, and on November 8 on that basis. Let me tell you why I ask you to do that. In my study of American history I have found, as I'm sure you have found, that all of our great Presidents have not been members of one party. Some of them have been Democrats; some of them have been Republicans. And the American people in their wisdom picked the President who at the time, whether he's a Democrat or Republican, can best provide the leadership the country needs. And that's why I ask you to make your decision in that spirit. Now, what do you want? What is the first thing that you want? I will tell you what I believe it is from travels around this country and from over the State of Iowa. Out at the airport today greeting us were a number of very interesting groups but one that particularly impressed me were 300 Boy Scouts in uniform, standing at attention - not in the goose-step rigid attention that you see in a totalitarian country like the Soviet Union in a pioneer camp for youth - but standing in the way Boy Scout groups usually stand, with the freedom of movement and expression that we expect from an organization of that type. The thing that ran through my mind I'm sure was what would run through your mind - that the most important question and the most important responsibility for the next President of the United States is to see that those boys and thousands like them are always in uniforms of peace and never have to be in uniforms of war. [Applause.] And so I say to you today that the most important responsibility of the next President is to keep the peace without surrender and that is the question you should ask - which of the candidates - which of the two for President and Vice President will best provide that leadership. I, of course, believe we can provide it and I want to tell you why in a few sentences. One, because I think that on the record we have done a better job. Look at our record. You've heard lots of criticisms about it, about the things that are wrong with the foreign policy leadership of President Eisenhower and his administration. But the results speak for themselves. We have difficulties because we have had them and will continue to have them as long as there are aggressive enemies of freedom on the loose in the world. But the test of a policy is not whether you have difficulties but whether you surmount those difficulties without becoming embroiled in war. And I say that the people of the United States will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for the fact that he ended one war, kept this country out of other wars and we have peace without surrender today for America and the world. [Applause.] And I believe that we can have, and do have, the programs that will have the best chance to maintain that peace. I don't say it's going to be easy. I don't say we're not going to have troubles because I've been around the world enough and I know the Communists well enough to know that they're going to stir up trouble every place around the world when they have an opportunity. But I do think that I know what we can do to contain that trouble, and not only contain it and defend ourselves but to take the offensive and extend freedom throughout the world. These things are necessary. [Applause.] First, we're going to keep this Nation as it is today the strongest in all the world. Why? Not because we ever want to use that strength against anybody else for aggressive purposes but because we know that as long as we are the strongest nation that we together with other peace-loving peoples will have strength that will deter anybody else who may want to extend their power by the use of military force. We will deter them from using that strength. And may I say that this strength must come before everything else and that America has the will, we have the resources and we will see to it that we continue to stay ahead of any potential enemies of peace and freedom in military strength. [Applause.] Now second, we've got to combine that strength with a wise diplomatic policy because strength when it's used improperly can produce exactly the wrong results for which it was intended. And by a wise policy I mean one that first, analyzes the Communists because they are the ones that threaten the peace of the world and the only ones that threaten it today, that analyzes how they think, and that then develops diplomatic policies which will be designed to keep them from one, extending their influence in the world and two, which will be designed to keep them from using their military strength in a way that would threaten the peace of the world. What's an example of that kind of a policy? I think the way the President conducted himself, as I have often indicated, as I said on television last night, the way he conducted himself in Paris is an excellent example. It's a fine line because it's the easy thing when you're dealing with men like this to go to extremes. When you talk to a man like Mr. Khrushchev as I did, when he insults you, when he is arrogant, the temptation is to lose your temper and to come back and to answer him in kind. But that's the wrong thing to do - wrong because the moment that you do that you are first losing your dignity and the dignity of your nation and when you're confident that you're right, you never have to get down and answer insult for insult with a man like Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else. [Applause.] And you never would want to risk what you might risk by getting into a war of words with him, of having it develop into another kind of war that you want to avoid. So holding your temper, not answering insult for insult is necessary. But then the fine line stops there. You must avoid another extreme and that is because he is arrogant, because he does say I will use my strength unless you give me what I want in Berlin, unless you give me what I want in Asia, unless you give me what I want in South America or Africa, I will use my strength to obtain it. There is also the temptation that you might say well, maybe he means what he says and, therefore, if we would give a little here or give a little there at the conference table that this might save the peace. Or putting it another way, if we don't give it, it might lead to war. And, my friends, that would be just as great mistake as losing your temper and I'll tell you why. Because in dealing with men like this you must remember that they don't react like the leaders of the free world react. As far as they're concerned when you make a concession to them without getting a concession in return - and that's the only way that we can negotiate with the men in the Kremlin and we will negotiate that way and we can I think negotiate in the years ahead that way if we make it clear that that is the basis for it - but when you give them the idea that they can cram concessions without giving something in return, it doesn't satisfy them. It only encourages them to ask for more. That's why it would have been the greatest mistake in the world for President Eisenhower to have taken the well-intentioned suggestions of those who said he might have saved the summit conference by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for the U-2 flights. This would have been a mistake one, because it wouldn't have worked and two, for another reason, no President of the United States can, of course ever consider expressing regrets for attempting to defend the United States against surprise attacks. [Applause.] So I say to you, we will keep this Nation stronger, the strongest in the world. We will have a firm diplomatic policy. But we also must strengthen the instruments of peace. We must be willing, as the President has often indicated, to sit down at the conference table with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else whenever there are clear indications that such a conference might relieve the tensions that hang over the world today. And we must strengthen the instruments of peace like the United Nations. Why? Because when the United States has other free nations standing with it, you see, we can be much stronger in furthering the cause of peace and freedom than if we move unilaterally as some have suggested we might in South America, in Africa, or some place else. And in that respect I'm very proud to say today that as far as our ticket is concerned we have a man in Henry Cabot Lodge, a man who can help immensely the next President of the United States in this particular project of strengthening the instruments of peace. [Applause.] I don't believe that any man in the world today has had more experience and could have done a better job than he has done at the United Nations defending the cause of freedom, defending the position of the United Nations against the men in the Kremlin. So we present him, we present our ticket as one that from the standpoint of our experience and our background and from what we stand can one, keep the United States strong militarily, have our diplomatic policy firm, and in addition to that, as a team which will not stay simply on the defensive but which will extend the cause of freedom and strengthen the instruments of peace. Now may I turn to what else you want from your next President and your next administration? In addition to peace and freedom for ourselves we, of course, want a good life. My dad always used to say to me when we were growing up - to me and my four brothers - he said you know lots of people always talk about the good old days. He said, "I remember the good old days. I remember when I used to work for a dollar a day and I don't want to go back." And he said, "Also, I never believe in talking about how good things are even at the present time and being satisfied with them, although you boys," he said, "should realize that you have had it a lot better than we did." But he said, "In this country we must always think of how we can have a better life in the future for our people and our children than we've had for ourselves." So what we want in America then is an administration in Washington under which we can have a good life at home. What does this mean? One, good jobs with good pay. Good schools. Medical care. Security in our old age. So I'd like to present our case in this respect. I say to you that I am proud first of the record in this respect. Oh I know you've been reading the papers, I imagine, as I have and listening to television and radio. And you've heard these charges to the effect that for the seven Eisenhower years America has stood still, that we've had no progress in our health and education, and in our jobs, and income, and all these other fields. Well I'll tell you. Those people that think America has been standing still just haven't been around this country because if they do travel through America they'll find some things. They'll find that we have built more schools in the 7 Eisenhower years than were built in the 20 years which preceded it. [Applause.] And they'll find that whatever comparison you take we will find the same thing with regard to hospitals, with regard to social security, as far as the wage earners of this country - 67 million of them - they will find that real wages went up five times as much in the course of the Eisenhower administration as they did in the 7 years of the Truman administration. So I say that as far as the record is concerned we have produced where they have promised. [Applause.] What about the future? Well, we've heard a lot of talk about new frontiers. All that I can say, my friends, there are new frontiers for America but believe me, we're not going to cross those new frontiers with the old jalopy that they say they're going to put us in in the event that they get the White House next November. [Applause.] Because you see, the economic policies that they would advocate are not new. They're just as old as the ones we left in 1953, the ones that we had during the course of the Truman administration which did not produce the progress that we have had in this administration. And I think I can sum up the difference in approach in a word. The reason they will fail in creating great progress for America that we need where we will succeed is that they begin with the fallacious assumption that the primary source of progress in this country is by sending everything to the Federal Government in Washington, D.C., the Federal Government will do this and that and the other thing and the people will follow along and do as they're told. And, my friends, that isn't the way America got to be the strongest nation in the world, the richest nation in the world, the best country in the world in which to live. The way we got where we are and the way we're going to move into a brighter new future over these new frontiers is not by relying on what the Federal Government does but by having Federal and other policies which will encourage and stimulate the best creative energy of 180 million free individual American citizens. [Applause.] And so I say to you, by whatever test that you make, consider what you want from Government. Do you want peace? Jobs? Do you want from Government the schools, hospitals, all these other things to which I have referred? And I think that on the record this administration has a case to present which is unbeatable, but more than that, we have a program for the future, one which simply does not stand on this record, but one which will recognize those areas where we haven't done as effective a job as we have, such as I have recognized that as far as our farm income is concerned that here we have not done as effective a job. We have not done it, not because of the fault of Republicans as such, or Democrats as such, but because we have not been imaginative enough, we've been too negative, and we have not moved on this problem and made it an asset, as I indicated at the beginning, rather than a liability. But I am confident that we can do it and with your help and your support we will do it. [Applause.] And now finally may I mention one other point to this great audience in Sioux City before we fly on to Minnesota and then on to Washington tonight. I would not want you to think that all that the American people want out of life is military strength and the material things which go up to a good living - amount to a good living. One of the things that has encouraged me tremendously as I have traveled about this country is this. We're not only the strongest nation militarily and economically, but the American people are strong in their idealism. And let us never forget that what really distinguishes America is not our military strength or our economic might, but the fact that we believe in ideals, the God-given dignity of men and women as individuals in moral and spiritual values that have caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago and still are a symbol of hope and liberty to the world. And, my friends, I urge you today to recognize that as far as this moral strength is concerned, no President can provide it. His leadership can help but it must come from the hearts and the souls and the minds of the American people. And as I see our churches, as I see our schools, as I see great audiences like this, I know that America is sound and strong in these areas and I urge you to continue to make this country strong morally and spiritually as well as in the other fields that I mentioned. So with that, thank you again for welcoming us. And if after what I have said you believe that the leadership that Henry Cabot Lodge and I can provide is the leadership that's best for America, if you believe that the leadership that Jack Miller and Charlie Hoeven can provide is the best that you can have in the Senate and the House of Representatives, if you believe that the leadership that Norman Erbe and his colleagues for State government is the best that Iowa can provide, then I say, "Go to work. Work as you never have before remembering that you're working not just for men as individuals and not just for a party, but that you're working for what is best for America and that will be best for you." Thank you.
This week I have had a wonderfully exciting and inspiring experience - that of visiting with tens of thousands of Americans from Maryland and Indiana to Texas and California, from Oregon and Washington to Idaho and North Dakota, from Illinois and Missouri to New Jersey and Virginia, from Nebraska to Iowa and, finally, to Minnesota. Every place I have visited I have seen a surging spirit and vitality in the people of our country and have felt their eagerness and ability to achieve better things for themselves in freedom. I have sensed their idealism and strength of character, and everywhere I have noted gratefully a friendly interest in the message we came to present. As a matter of fact, we have been so busy and so pleasantly absorbed in this undertaking that not until today have I realized that, as I have been moving about, my political opponents have apparently been visiting a different country, or seeing different citizens, or else they have been viewing our people and our country through different eyes. For where I have seen strength, they seem to have feared weakness. Where I have seen idealism, character and appreciation of our Nation's ideals, they seem uneasily to have feared aimlessness, even shiftlessness, and, therefore, a clear need for management of our people from Washington, D.C. When I have seen an America great today, and determined to be greater tomorrow, evidently they have nervously felt that all is lost unless, again, the Federal Government steps in and somehow forces America to be great. And, then, I understand our opponents are saying now that America's $40-billion-a-year defenses, built under the leadership of our great soldier - President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, have all of a sudden become shaky, weak, and vulnerable, so that, here again, unless we find a cure for our sleeping sickness, we face destruction by the Soviet Union. Strange indeed this difference in pictures. Where I have found inspiration, they have detected complacency, lethargy, inertia, a lack of purpose, inadequate progress in every important area of our economic and social life. And, finally, they even see a depression right around the corner. Making the picture entirely black, they proclaim that abroad America is held in disrepute and disrespect. They say America is weak and has lost its prestige - but the American people know better. My impression is that people usually see in good measure what they feel and believe, deep down inside. One might say that I see a strong America because I am convinced that she is strong - and, indeed, I do believe that I have seen idealism and faith and vitality everywhere we have gone. These have been the hallmarks of America for 185 years and they still are; we aren't panicky about what tomorrow will bring because we are convinced that Americans are going to demand and strive for a tomorrow far better than today. They will achieve this mainly through their own effort and ability instead of from Uncle Sam. But surely an obsession with fear and failure, a gnawing concern that we are going to let hostile forces prevail, a panic lest next month or next year the whole economy is going to crumble, and a reliance not in the people but in the Federal direction of the people have not become the hallmarks of greatness or ambition or symbols of leadership. Those who amidst unmatched prosperity and progress can detect only retreat, defeat and disaster had better have their glasses - or their values - carefully examined. To be sure, major tasks are unfinished in our country, and we Americans always aspire and work to achieve greater things for ourselves and our children. These things we will continue to demand many of them we can and will accelerate - but what, exactly, is the calamity that occasions the fright? Is it the fact that this Republican administration has in the first 4 of its peacetime years spent almost three times as much on our defenses as the last Democratic administration did in the only 4 peacetime years it had - and, even counting 3 wartime years, spent some $50 billion more than the Democrats did for defense in the whole 7-year span? Is it the fact that during this administration the real wages of men and women of labor have gone up more than seven times as much as during the last administration? Is it the fact that during this administration Americans have built more hospitals and roads and more schools and homes and made more money, spent more money, invested more money, and saved more money than ever before? Is all this proof that America has been and is standing still? Or is it that we brought one war to an end, honorably avoided other wars, and kept America at peace without surrendering principle or territory? Is this an indication that disaster will befall us tomorrow? No, the truth is that America is strong, and America is sound, and given good Government in Washington - one that encourages but does not try to manage the people, we will keep our America strong and sound and free.   * * * * * Chairman Khrushchev is about to arrive at the United Nations, here on American soil. He has the right to do this, as head of his delegation, under the United Nations Charter, and this is true as well of his dictatorial colleagues such as Castro and Kadar. But my point is this: In our free system the American press and radio and television will publicize widely every move these men will make and every word they will utter. No doubt this will stir up quite a furor. But the fact that the United Nations is headquartered in New York and is covered by our free press, which will report all of Mr. Khrushchev's antics, does not represent a defeat or a threat as far as we are concerned. The only real danger that he can turn his visit to his advantage will develop if we show signs of confusion, disunity and immaturity over the occasion. Let me give you an example of what I mean. My opponent has just said that his visit as the Soviet chief of delegation to the United Nations means that the cold war is being brought "* * * to within 12 miles of the Bergen Mall * * *" in New Jersey. Now what was that supposed to mean? Is it calculated distortion, or accidental error, or lack of understanding, or, possibly a stirring after something to scare people with? Whatever it is, it hardly contributes to America's well-being, and certainly it does not enlighten our people or our friends in the world. I think it is time that we be done with the practice of cutting the pride and support of America by endlessly forecasting doom and prating gloom. I think we should stop this continual insisting that America is poorly defended against a powerful and deadly foe. It is dangerous, as well as dead wrong. And I hope we will discard as fallacious and unworthy the absurdity that our progress is defeat, our strength weakness, and our hope not ourselves and the ideals of America but a faraway Federal bureaucracy doing for us what we should do for ourselves. Let's stick to the facts, not fancy, in this campaign. And let's have pride and faith in our country, our cause, and our future.
The Democratic leaders of Congress, with two-to-one majorities were more interested in seeking a political issue than in providing the assistance so badly needed by the depressed areas. The original administration program provided far more real help to the areas which needed it, such as the Pennsylvania and West Virginia and other depressed coal-mining areas than the Democratic bill, which was passed deliberately to provoke a Presidential veto. What the President asked for would have provided Scranton well over $1½ million in loans. What they passed would have provided well under $1 million. What they passed would have helped Wilkes-Barre-Hazleton by about $1.6 million. What they rejected - the President's bill - would have provided $2.6 million. Their approach allowed Charleston, W. Va., under $600 thousand. The program they rejected would have provided almost a million dollars. What caused this difference? You may have heard already, and you will hear, that the bill they passed had more money for these areas than the one the President proposed. But this is the difference: Theirs was straight pork barrel. It spread more dollars so widely - into place after place that did not need this sort of help that places like Scranton, where help is critically needed, were left begging. They used the shotgun of politics instead of the rifle of national interest. No responsible President could have approved it. Moreover, when the President urgently renewed his appeal for depressed areas legislation in the rump session of Congress, the Democratic leadership, once again ignored the recommendation. Again the issue was more important to them than the need of the people. Nothing can now be done until the Congress reconvenes in January. At that time, I consider it to be of the highest urgency that the Congress put aside political considerations immediately and act at once on this question which involves a great deal of human anxiety and even suffering. In my opinion, Congress should enact legislation along the lines of the legislation sponsored by Senator Scott and congressmen Van Zandt, Fenton, and Saylor to set up a $200 million program for the distressed areas, and for which two-thirds of the Republicans voted in the Senate. The bill exceeds the original administration request by $20 million and raises Federal participation in the development loans from 35 to 50 percent. I favor these and other aspects of the Scott-Van Zandt-Fenton-Saylor bill; which could already have been enacted by the Congress, and which I am confident the President would have approved.
Along with that military strength, we must have a diplomatic policy which is just as strong, a policy which must have, among other ingredients, these that I would mention tonight: First, it must be firm. It must be based on knowledge of a kind of men we are dealing with. Mr. Khrushchev, who has just arrived in the United States to attend the U.N. meeting, is not liked and does not react like the leaders of the free world. He doesn't react like Mr. Macmillan or President De Gaulle or Chancellor Adenauer or President Eisenhower and, in order to develop the kind of diplomatic policy that will deal with him effectively, you must recognize what kind of man he is and you must build your policy accordingly. The first ingredient of that policy must be this: It must be firm. It must never make a concession without getting a concession in return. It must never assume that a smile or a handshake or pleasant words are going to change his attitudes. For example, you recall the conference at Paris recently which Mr. Khrushchev broke up he said over the U-2 incident. There were some who criticized President Eisenhower after that on the ground they claimed that maybe he hadn't done enough to save the conference, that possibly he might have tried to save it by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for the flights. May I tell you why the President shouldn't have done that? There are two reasons: (1) That kind of suggestion shows a naive attitude about the Communist mind because if the President had expressed regrets it not only would not have saved the conference; it would not only not have satisfied Mr. Khrushchev - it would have whetted his appetite and it would have made him push for more. It would have been exactly the wrong thing to do on that score. And then there was another reason that the President, of course, could not do that. No President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, must ever feel that he must express regrets or apologize for attempting to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack. With that firmness, of course, must go the willingness to negotiate, willingness to negotiate provided the groundwork is laid so that those negotiations have some possibility to succeed, particularly if they are to take place at the head-of-state or head-of-government level, at the so-called summit conference level, and in that connection, may I say that when such negotiations do take place we must remember that whoever represents the United States as President, not only must be firm, but he must be so without losing his temper. He must be cool in a crisis. He must be able to take an insult, keep his position firm, but not engage in a war of words that might heat up the international atmosphere, and here again I think the President gave us a good example in Paris. Some said, "Why didn't he give Khrushchev back as good as he received?" And the answer is: When you're confident that you're right, when you're confident in your strength you don't get down to the level of somebody who engages in the kind of talk that Mr. Khrushchev does. You maintain the dignity of your office and of your country. In this period, diplomatically, the American people must also, along with their Government and their leaders, develop a quality of national maturity. This means not blaming ourselves every time that the Communists cause us trouble anyplace in the world. It means not losing our heads because Mr. Khrushchev decides to come to the United Nations, as he has a right to. I know that it has been suggested that, because he came to the United Nations, that act, in itself, brought the cold war to the United States. My friends, the cold war had been brought to the United States long before that. It is being fought all over the world and will continue to be fought all over the world because that is the way the Communists operate. But I would say, further, as Mr. Khrushchev comes to the United States and the United Nations, he will say some things that we won't like. He will do some things that may have a tendency to distress some people in this country. But, believe me, we do not have to be afraid of the comparison. When our President goes before the United Nations and talks about U.S. policies toward the world and Mr. Khrushchev goes before the U.N. and talks about Soviet policies, I say the great majority of the people of the world will recognize that it is we who stand for peace and not Mr. Khrushchev. And to those who have any doubts about it, I would say the recent action in the Congo, where he tried to muscle in unilaterally and get power in that area and where we stood with the United Nations and got the United Nations' support, is an indication (1) of U.S. prestige, with our policies being followed, and (2) that the United States will try - and always tries - to work to make the instruments of peace stronger rather than to weaken them. And now may I turn to a second point. Military strength and diplomatic firmness are necessary and essential to keep the peace, but they will only hold the line. In order to extend freedom, we have to recognize that we are in a great competition today, a competition of economic systems and a competition of ideals, and in this economic competition, to which I would first like to refer, we are well ahead, but Mr. Khrushchev challenges us, as he told me when I was in Moscow. He said, "Mr. Vice President, we are behind you now, but," he said, "we're moving faster than you are. Our system is better than yours." He said, "We're going to catch you and we're going to pass you by, and when we do, I will wave and we will wave and say to you, 'Come along and follow us.'" Our answer to that must not be simply, "Well, we're stronger economically and more productive," as we are, because while you're ahead in a race you must never assume that being ahead is enough. You can't stand pat. You've always got to move ahead to stay ahead, and that means getting the maximum out of the U.S. economy. How do we do this? We do this by seeing that there are no leaks in this economy. We do this by emphasizing not what the Federal Government does primarily, but what individuals are allowed to do and encouraged to do by their Government, and we do this, to use a specific example, by seeing to it that, as America moves ahead, nobody stays behind, no individual. That means that every individual, regardless of his background, must have an equal opportunity to make his economic and other contribution to America's progress, and it means that, while America moves ahead, no section of the country can stay behind. It means that in areas like Scranton and Wilkes-Barre that have economic difficulties, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government not to come in and federalize the institutions in these areas, but to adopt programs which will enable them to make maximum use of their tremendous human resources and their natural resources. On that point, I have something to say that will be of particular interest to the people in this area. I know there has been considerable debate about the so-called depressed areas, and there has been talk to the effect that this administration, quoting from a billboard that I saw coming in, doesn't care. My answer is this: If the Democratic administration and the Democratic leaders really cared, they would have passed a bill that the President would have signed rather than asking for an issue. And to those who say, "But, Mr. Nixon, their bill gave so much more money than your bill would," look what it was. It was a straight pork-barrel bill. It was one that used a shotgun rather than a rifle. What the President asked for, for example, in his bill, putting it in specifics, would have provided Scranton well over a million and a half dollars in loans. What they passed would have been well under a million. What they passed would have helped Wilkes-Barre-Hazleton by about 1.6 million and what they rejected in the President's bill would have provided 2.6 million. The same can be said of the other really depressed areas, those that really do need assistance, like this one, like Wilkes-Barre, like Charleston, W. Va. And, so, I would say again that here what we need is not the shotgun of politics which they used, but what we need is the rifle of national interest, and I say that in the next session of this Congress, if I have an opportunity to send a message to that session, that an issue of the highest priority would be to get this Congress to do what the last session of the Congress did not do when they had a 2-to-1 majority of their party I have an announcement to make tonight. In studying this legislation, I am convinced that the best approach is the one that has been drafted by Senator Scott and three Pennsylvania Congressmen, Van Zandt, Fenton, and Saylor, one which Bill Scranton, incidentally, has come to talk to me about several times, a bill which will provide $200 million for the distressed areas, which exceeds the administration's request by $20 million. It would raise Federal participation from 35 to 50 percent. I believe the principles are consistent with that of the administration bill - and, incidentally, had the Congress passed this kind of bill, I am convinced the President would have signed it. But, in any event, we can and will get action because we are interested in people, even though our opponents in this last session, by what they produced, seemed to be interested only in politics rather than people. So, I again say this economy of ours, under our leadership, will continue to move forward and it will grow. It will grow far greater, far faster than it would ever grow under their leadership because we recognize the primary source of growth in a free economy is not what the Federal Government does, but it is by what the Federal Government does in inspiring and stimulating the creative activities of 180 million free Americans.
Governor McKeldin, Mr. Richardson, distinguished guests and friends: It is a very great privilege for me to be here with you this morning, particularly so after that very ringing and generous introduction by my friend Ted McKeldin. I certainly do appreciate your taking the time to come from all over the U.S. to this meeting, to come here so that I can have the chance to talk to you like this - and I trust afterward perhaps to reach various groups of you, possibly individually and certainly in groups as well. I only wish that these campaign schedules weren't so full, because as I look around this room I see so many with whom I have worked in various activities, and I just wish I had the time to sit down and chat about some of those things and some of our plans for the future. But, as you know, we have to get to 50 States between now and November 8. We have about 10 under our belt up to this point. We have to go back to some that we have already visited and, believe me, to get to 50 States even with jet aircraft is quite an achievement if you try to do it in an 8-week period. So you will, I know, understand why I am here only for the short time that I am. But I certainly do appreciate your coming and I do appreciate the fact that during the balance of the day you will be discussing these problems that are so important to the Nation and I would emphasize also, so very close to the hearts of all Americans and all of us who love freedom. I have been thinking of those ideas that would perhaps be of greatest interest to this group. I first would like to say that I feel very humble in the presence of this group in which are so many who have led the fight for freedom through the years, long before I ever came into public life. You have led it at times when the hope was very small for ever achieving your goal, and you lead it now when the hope of achieving your ultimate goal could not be as bright as you would wish. But you have kept alive the dreams and the aspirations and the hopes of millions of people that they can be free, and for this I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart. I think you not only as an individual but as a representative of our Government speaking for the American people and our greatest ideals. Another thing that impresses me about this group is that when you look over the lists and when you see all of the various nationality groups that you represent it makes one realize why America really is a great country. You know people often say when discussing the greatness of America that this greatness is due to different factors. If you were to ask the question, "Why is America a great country?" just off the cuff to various people they would give you different answers. Some would say America is a great country because it is the strongest nation in the world militarily. It is. Others might say America is the richest country, it has the highest standard of living in the world and that is, of course, another measure of greatness. And others might say America is a great country because we have the greatest resources in the world, natural resources, and I would imagine that we still have the greatest natural resources, much as we have used our resources in the 185 years of our history. But greatness is something more than military strength, something more than productivity of factories. To the Communists that is all that greatness is, but to us greatness is something far more significant. A country is only as great and only as strong as its adherence to lasting ideals is great and strong and firm. Because I submit to you that when America was a country of only 3 million people approximately, 185 years ago, when it was weak militarily, when its agricultural economy couldn't even compare with the more industrialized economies and more developed economies in other parts of the world, that at that time America was a great country too. It was great because it stood for something. It stood for freedom and for independence for the people of this country, but it also was a symbol of hope for people everywhere who wanted freedom and independence. And what we must never forget these days is that we came into the world wanting not only to get freedom and independence for ourselves but also to stand for freedom and independence to people everywhere in the world. This is the American ideal and as long as we remember this America will continue to be called great. Another element of greatness, of course, is in the makeup of this group. Have you ever stopped to consider who are the American people? This is not a master race in the sense that the dictators have used, but the Americans, the people we call the Americans, come from all the nations of the world. We come from all continents, from all countries, from all races and all religions and what better evidence of it than here? I recall talking to Mr. Herbert Hoover at the time he was working with me on the Hungarian refugee problems, trying to develop programs for the refugees. Concern was expressed at that time about changing our immigration laws to allow more refugees to come in, concern with regard to the effect on employment and unemployment in this country, concern as to how these people could be assimilated. His answer was that every wave of refugees that has come to the United States has strengthened America rather than weakened it. This we must never forget because again we are seeing an element of the greatness, and we must always remember this in our attitudes toward our fellow Americans and in our attitudes with regard to legislation affecting the various groups within our society. We must do nothing that would weaken this element of greatness. We must do those things that strengthen it. That is why we must fight against hatred and prejudice of any kind, fight against it because it is wrong morally, fight against it because it weakens America wherever it exists in this country in any shape. Now I come to a subject which is very close to or from the heart of every person in this room, a subject which I know has been discussed and will be discussed during the balance of this day. Mr. Khrushchev is coming to the United States along with others who represent dictatorial regimes abroad. We are going to hear a number of charges against the United States and what we stand for in the next few days. We are going to hear that the Communist leaders come here as the partisans of peace, as partisans of the people. And, as I think all of you know, one of the insidious appeals of communism is that when the Communists come, whether in Europe or in Asia or in Africa, or in Latin America, they do not come as conquerors, they do not come as dictators, but they come as people who are fighting for peace and for independence and for whatever the people in that particular country want at a particular time. Oh, they are against all those things because they do not bring peace, they always bring turmoil. They will not bring freedom, they bring slavery. They do not bring plenty, they bring want, because all of these satellite countries they use only for the purpose of building up the strength of the Soviet Union itself and suck out the resources, both the human resources and the material resources, which the people otherwise would use for themselves. And, of course, above all they do not bring independence, they do not bring the opposition to colonialism which they say they stand for. They impose upon the countries who are taken in by their propaganda a colonialism far more lasting and a colonialism far worse than any people ever dreamed of before. But this is the difficulty. They talk one way very effectively but they act another. And as far as America is concerned, as far as those who stand with us in this fight for freedom are concerned, we must remember that we are fighting in effect an idea, all ideology which is aggressive, which advocates change, which advocates a better life. It is not enough for us to say that what we are doing is defending what we have got. If we simply say that America has freedom and prosperity, that we like it and we don't want anybody to change it and that we'll do anything, anything from the standpoint of making a treaty or a deal with the Soviet Union or any other country just so long as we can retain our freedom and our independence, then first of all we won't retain our freedom and our independence and secondly we would be doing something that would be a betrayal of everything that America stands for. In other words, you cannot answer a great offensive idea, an idea which is on the march and which is engaging in an offense, simply with defensive tactics. And so America today must stand, as I said in my acceptance speech in Chicago, it must stand not just for defending what we have, not just for the status quo but we must stand for extending freedom throughout the world. To those who boldly work for and arrogantly say that they stand for the victory of communism over all the world, the only answer is to stand for the victory of freedom throughout the world. This is an American ideal, not new, but as old as the Nation is old and as old as civilization is old, because these ideas did not come full blown in America. Our great founders were well schooled in the traditions and the cultures and the philosophies of all times, and they incorporated them in our Declaration of Independence and in our Constitution. And that is why America has meant something more than military strength and economic strength and the sheer materialism that communism stands for in the world. And so today I say to you that you meet here not just to help keep the good rights that we have in America, but to have in mind America's traditional interest in people who don't have what we have, people who want to be free. The fact that you have spent your lives in this, believe me, is inspiring. Sometimes it is rather easy for us to forget how fortunate we are to live in freedom in America. And it is easy for us to forget that there are millions of people, some of whom we never hear of because of the Iron Curtain which cuts off information from them, who deeply want to achieve freedom and independence, people that we must not and cannot forget in our policy. I think this was first and most vividly brought to my attention when I stood on the border between Austria and Hungary and I saw young people come across, in spite of the fact that there were Communist guns there ready to shoot them down. There were workers and students, not as the Communists said they were, the enemies of the people, but people from all walks of life who love freedom, and I saw them and talked to them and have seen hundreds of them in the United States since then. To go to a city like Detroit and have Hungarians come to me and say they are getting along fine certainly makes us realize how worthwhile our country is and how important it is that we continue to fight for the right of these people to be free. Governor McKeldin mentioned my visit to the Soviet Union. You recall that I stopped in Poland afterward. I can never describe the feeling in my heart that day, because this was the experience that can never be forgotten. The Communist government of Poland, not wanting to have a comparison with Mr. Khrushchev's visit, did not disclose when we were arriving, or where, or the parade route. When our plane landed, I expected nobody to be on the streets. But the people were there because in a captive country the people have a way of getting the word around. And so as we traveled through the streets the number of people increased and they were shouting and cheering and throwing bouquets into the cars. And one told the press afterward that when Mr. Khrushchev came they had flowers, but this time they purchased the flowers themselves. The other time the government furnished them. "These flowers we threw and the government's flowers we kept for ourselves." I do not need to tell this group that our problems are great. I do not need to tell this group that has the memory of Hungary still in their minds that we must achieve our goal without war. I know there are people who say, Why do we give these people any hope when we are not going to be able to wage a war in order to achieve freedom? My answer is this: Tyrants have always underestimated the force of moral strength. America must stand always for these hopes. We must work for them at the diplomatic table, in our campaigns. This competition between ideas must take place on the other side of the Iron Curtain as well. This goal of the right of people to the government they want can be attained, and Americans must never lose sight of our ability to attain it for our friends throughout the world. I have used my time. May I tell you again how deeply I appreciate your attention, but more I appreciate the work that you are doing, the work that you are doing for sheer idealism, not with any thought of reward. The only reward which you will have will be the reward that I have had in seeing the smiles of gratitude on the faces of people coming across the border. To see the hope in the eyes of the Poles in Warsaw is to realize that if we fight this battle we are following the tradition which has made America a great country and we help America to be true to its ideals. Thus you have helped America be true to her ideals, and I appreciate the opportunity to meet you. Thank you.
What do I mean by maturity? Mr. Khrushchev is just visiting this country at the present time at the United Nations. He's going to say a lot of things while he is here. He may do some things while he is here that people who are rash and immature will react to by saying: "Oh, my, something is wrong with the United States because Mr. Khrushchev is saying these things." And I'm going to suggest this: Whatever Mr. Khrushchev says, whatever he does while he's attending the United Nations, remember, we are strong. We are stronger militarily, stronger economically, stronger morally and spiritually, and we are not to be shaken and we are not to lose our nerve or be knocked off balance by anything he says or does. I say that is important because there has been a tendency recently in America for us to blame ourselves for what the Communists do. When they staged riots in Japan, but kept President Eisenhower from going there, some Americans threw up their hands and said, "We must be at fault." But we kept our heads. We didn't change our policy toward Japan. Result: Today, the people of Japan are stronger on our side than they've ever been, and the Government as well. That is what I mean by maturity. So, I say a policy that is firm, one that will always be willing to negotiate with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else, on fairer terms, but one that will always stand for our freedom and for the freedom of others throughout the world, is the kind of policy that America needs in these critical years of the sixties and it is the kind of a policy I believe in because I know this man and I know this is the kind that works with him, and a policy of softness, a policy of rashness, a policy of immaturity would play directly into his hands and would not serve the cause of peace. Now, if I might add to that just two other thoughts, and I will be finished. What I have said up to this time will simply hold the line. It will keep the peace, as we have been keeping it; but, my friends, we must do more than that. America must stand for extending the cause of freedom, of winning the battle for freedom that is going on all over the world, and that battle, my friends, is one that's taking place in a number of areas, and one of them is economic. In this economic area, America is ahead of the Soviet Union today. We outproduce them two times to one. But, in order to stay ahead we've got to move ahead and, in order to move ahead, may I say that America cannot afford for any Americans to stay behind or for any section of the country to stay behind. Not only must America move ahead economically as a nation, but all Americans, regardless of their backgrounds must move along as well and all sections of the country must move. That brings me to a point I want to mention here. As I came in I noticed some billboards saying: "VOTE DEMOCRATIC. THE DEMOCRATS CARE." If they cared about Wilkes-Barre, about the depressed area conditions, here, they would not have played politics with that issue. They would have thought of the people and we would have had a bill that would have done something about it. I say to you today, and I pledge to you, that America, first, cannot afford to allow any pockets of unemployment to exist. We cannot afford not to use the tremendous human resources that are here in this area that are not being used. We cannot afford not to use the natural resources that are not being used and, as I shall develop in my speech at Scranton tonight, in the next session of Congress, if I have the opportunity to lead this country, I can assure you we are going to get a bill and we are going to do something about it in the next session of the Congress.
I would like to talk tonight not only to the wage earners, union members, and nonunion members of Michigan, but to the wage earners of America, and that's most of us, incidentally, 67 million wage earners in America. I would like to talk to you in terms of why I believe what we stand for, the men on this platform, is best for you, not only at the national level, but at the State level as well. Now, in speaking to you, I am not going to say what my opponent was reported to have indicated and said when he was here speaking in Detroit on Labor Day. I do not say today to you - I do not make a commitment - that everything that union leaders or the union movement, so-called, is for I am for, that everything they oppose I am against. He was reported to have said that, and the next day a release was issued of an endorsement in the papers for him by Mr. Reuther's organization, indicating that in all the time he had served in the House and Senate there had been 33 key votes and that 100 percent of the time he had voted for the things that the union leaders of the CIO were for and against the things they were against. I'm going to tell you tonight that I will not say that I am for what the union leaders are for in Michigan or any other State 100 percent. I'm not going to say what the farm leaders are for, the Farm Bureau, the Grange, or any other farm organization I'm for 100 percent. I'm not for what the business leaders are for 100 percent. And I'll tell you why. A President of the United States has to be President of all the people, and he must belong to no one group 100 percent. He must be 100 percent for all the people. There are many of the things that the union leaders in this State and nationally are for that I am for, many of the things that business leaders are for that I am for, but there are also things which as a President I would have to be against. I recall, for example, the experience I had in settling the steel strike with Secretary Mitchell. Dave McDonald, the head of the Steelworkers, wanted one thing and Roger Blough, the head of the U.S. Steel Co., wanted something else; and I, as Vice President of the United States, couldn't give either of them all that they wanted, because, while they would have liked it, as far as the country was concerned, it wouldn't have been good. So, in the end, I had to make a recommendation, along with Secretary Mitchell, which satisfied neither the union leaders nor the management leaders, but which did do the best job for the American people in settling the strike that should have been settled on a fair basis. And, so, I say to you tonight that I feel that it would be my responsibility - and I will feel completely independent in that responsibility - to stand for what is best for all Americans, union members, non-union members, all of our people, whenever a problem comes before the Chief Executive of this country. Let me put the case, as I would like to put it, and, as I indicated I would put it a moment ago. Why do I say that the wage earners of America - the wage earners - why should they vote for our ticket? I'll tell you why. First, because of our record. My friends, put yourself in the position of the head of the family in this country, a wage earner. What do we want? What do you want? Well, the first thing you want is a job. All right, in terms of jobs, there are more jobs available in the United States today than ever in the history of our country. They pay higher wages than ever before in the history of our country. There is better security with those jobs than ever before in the history of our country, and all of that under an administration which we have had for the last 8 years. What else do they want? The wage earners of America want the jobs in which their income is real, in which it goes up so that it can buy things, not income simply that is inflated. Look at the record there. The charge has been made that this administration has been against the wage earners and that the former administration has been for them, but look at the record. Did you realize that in the 7 Truman years the family income of the wage earners of America went up just 2 percent in 7 years? In the 7 years of this administration its gone up seven times as much, 15 percent, and I say the wage earners of America like 15 percent up in 7 years better than 2 percent and they're not going to go back to leadership which would bring them back to 2 percent again, as they had under the previous administration. But our wage earners, of course, are not interested in just their jobs and in their security. They are also interested in progress, in a better life constantly for their children than they have had for themselves. As my dad always used to tell us when we were growing up in our family, he said, "I don't want to go back to the good old times because I remember how much worse they were than we are today." He said, "We want something better for you than we have had," and that's the way all Americans feel. So, on this issue of progress, I want to tackle that one head on because some charges have been made in that respect that ought to be answered and the record set straight. The charge has been made that under this administration, America has been standing still, that we have made no progress and that we've got to have a change in Washington so that America can move again. Well, my friends, let us look at this administration that is supposed to have been standing still in the field of progress. First, take schools. All of us want better schools for our children. How many schools were built in this administration? I'll tell you how many. Not only more than were built in the 7 previous years under Mr. Truman, but we have built more schools in this administration than in the 20 years before this one. So, that's progress in that area nobody can deny. That's not standing still, and I think that all of you will agree with me on that point. I could make similar comparisons on hospitals. I could make similar comparisons on other public facilities in which we have seen more progress in these 7 years than in any administration in history. So, America has not been standing still in that field. Or let's take human rights, because our wage earners have a deep feeling, as they should, and we're proud that they all have that feeling, a deep feeling for their fellow man, and they believe in equality of opportunity and they want it to become a reality so that all of our young people will have an equal chance at the starting line. What about equality of opportunity? It has been charged that the executive branch of this Government has no interest in equality of opportunity, that we've really given no leadership. My friends, what is the record? First, two civil rights bills, both sponsored by our administration, our executive branch, were passed in this administration, the first legislation in 70 years in that field. But, beyond that, in getting more job opportunities for people of all backgrounds, without regard to their particular background, race, Creed, or color, in providing more job opportunities, in providing opportunities in education, in every field, I say tonight there has been more progress in this administration, and we are proud of it, than there has been in 50 years before this time. That's not standing still, and the American wage earners and the American people know it, and they are going to vote that way on November 8 because they know what the facts are and what the record is. And now you may say: "What of the future? Where are we going to go? Are we going to stand on this record?" And my answer is: A record is never something to stand on. It's something to build on. We do have the best living in this Nation that civilization has ever produced. We do have the finest education in the world today in America. We are ahead of all the world in science. But, my friends, in all of these fields we can and we will move ahead under the leadership that we will give in this next administration. I want to tell you why we will move ahead further and faster and more surely than will our opponents. It's a very simple reason. Because we will tap all the resources of America to do it. We will not simply say that the answer to progress is to put the responsibility on far-off Washington. We will say that the way to get the greatest progress in America is through government policies which stimulate the creative energies of a hundred and eighty million free individual Americans. That is the way to progress in America. And, so, again I say whether you consider jobs, whether you consider the record, whether you consider the future, we have a better case to offer, not only to the wage earners, but to all Americans. Now let us look at the most important issue of all, and I'm sure that some may wonder what possibly could be more important than good jobs for ourselves good schools for our children, better health care, and the answer, of course, is: What is more important than all these good things is being around to enjoy them. I say to you tonight that the greatest responsibility of the next President of the United States will be to keep the peace for America and to extend freedom throughout the world. And, believe me, I say, on the basis of talking to hundreds of thousands of people in these last 10 days all over America, that there is no question but what they believe this is the great issue. It is true in Hawaii and it is true in Maine. It is true in Alabama and Georgia, just as it is true in Michigan. It's true in California, and it's true in New Jersey. The people know this is the great issue, and I want to discuss it tonight also because the wage earners of America feel this issue just as do all the people of America. Why do I believe that our leadership is the leadership that can best keep the peace and extend freedom ?First, because of our background of experience. I will not comment on my own. That is for you to decide. But I will comment on my colleague's and my running mate's. He will be a partner with me in working to strengthen the instruments of peace, in working to extend freedom, and, my friends, I can say tonight that there is no man in the world today who has done a better job and who has had more experience in standing for peace and standing in behalf of freedom against the Communists than has Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President of the United States. What kind of leadership will we give you? First, we will keep America, as she is today, the strongest nation militarily, as well as economically. Why? Not because we ever want to use that strength against another nation, but because we realize that in dealing with the men in the Kremlin this is the language they understand. We realize that the best guarantee of peace for ourselves and for our friends is to be stronger than those who threaten the peace, and the only ones who threaten the peace are the Communists who have said over and over again that they intend to conquer the world by any means that they may have to use. And I say to you - and I pledge to you - that America's strength will come first above every other consideration, and I am sure the American people will support policies which will see that that is done. What other policies will we follow? We will see that the diplomacy that we have in these critical years will be just as strong as our military and economic power, as strong and, I might add, as wise, because if you do not have wise and strong diplomacy your power can mean nothing at all. Let me give you an illustration. You recall the Paris Conference which Mr. Khrushchev blew up and said it was over the U-2 flights which the President had ordered for the purpose of gathering intelligence information with regard to Soviet power. After the conference was blown up, there were some who criticized the President for his conduct. Some of them said, on the one hand, that the President didn't answer hard enough. They said, "When Mr. Khrushchev insulted him he should have come back and hit him right back the same way." But the reason the President didn't was a very good one, and it was this, and all Americans will understand it: When you are confident of your strength, when you know you are right and have faith in the rightness of your cause, you don't answer insult by insult, but you maintain the dignity of your country, your office, as did President Eisenhower. And also a President of the United States must never indulge in the luxury of simply engaging in a war of words to satisfy his own personal anger because he must always remember that in doing that he might risk heating up the international atmosphere to a point which would result in a nuclear explosion. But there is another extreme which the President must also avoid, and there were other critics after this conference, as you recall, and they went to this extreme: They said, "Well, the President didn't do enough to save the conference. Maybe he could have saved it by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for what had been done, by apologizing for the flights." And I'll tell you why he couldn't do that and shouldn't have. First, because it wouldn't have saved the conference. You see, this shows no understanding whatever of the kind of man we are dealing with. I know this man. I know the type that he is, and his colleagues. They understand strength. They understand firmness. But the moment you make a concession to them without getting a concession in return you do not pave the way to peace. You pave the way to surrender or war, and that we must never do.  And the other reason the President, of course, acted as he did, and should, is this: That no President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, must ever feel that he must apologize for attempting to defend the security of the United States of America from surprise attack.  What else will we do? We will strengthen the instruments of peace - the United Nations, the Organization of American States, such new organizations as may prove feasible and necessary, which will strengthen peace throughout the world. We will negotiate, yes, but always from strength, never from weakness, always insisting that we will not negotiate away the freedom and the independence of our friends any place in the world.  These things we will stand for and these things can keep the peace and will extend freedom.  And now the last point I would make is this: I'm sure that all of you will agree with the necessity for maintaining military strength and economic strength, and firm diplomacy without belligerency, but all these things we can have and still not win the struggle for freedom, and that is what we must do. It is not enough for America, rich as we are, strong as we are, simply to hold our own. What we must remember is that the world is changing. What we must remember is that the Communists are moving all over the world to extend slavery throughout the world. They are working for the victory of communism - and, my friends, the only answer to those who work for the victory of communism is for us, the leaders of the free world, to work for the victory of freedom throughout the world.  How do we do that? We do that through the strength of our ideals rather than the strength of our arms. The strength of our arms, our economic strength, is as nothing unless our ideals are sound and strong. So, I say to this great audience tonight: More important than our military strength and our economic strength is the moral and spiritual fiber of America.  A hundred and eighty-five years ago America was a weak country militarily, a very weak country economically, but one of the strongest nations in the world in the appeal that it had to people all over the world. Why? Because we believed in great ideals, which were greater than America then, and even greater than America today, ideals of freedom, of independence, of belief in the dignity of man, a belief that the rights that men have to freedom do not come from men, but that they come from God. These spiritual and moral ideals, my friends, are the real strength of America, and this strength must come not just from leaders in Washington or in your State capitol; they must come from the hearts of our people, and that's why I say to all of you who are listening, wherever you may be: Do your part for America in this critical period when we can and will lead the world to peace with freedom. Do it by making America strong at home, spiritually and morally. Do it - how? This must come from the home. It must come from the church. It must come from the community. It must come from the hearts of our people. And this means striking down prejudices wherever we see it. It means working for equality of opportunity in your own lives and in your own associations, not just waiting for the Government to do something about it. It means always letting America be a shining example for all the world to see, of freedom in action, and this will be the most powerful, magnetic force, the dynamic force that will assure victory in this great struggle in which America has the responsibility and the opportunity to lead the world. And, in conclusion, may I say I have seen the strength of this ideal. I was very honored tonight. A choir of Polish Americans sang before I came, and I hope to hear them later in the evening. I visited Poland, as many of you know, a year ago. We arrived on a Sunday afternoon. The Government did not publish, as they did here, for example, the parade route because they did not want a big demonstration. Mr. Khrushchev having been there 2 weeks before, he didn't want to have a comparison. But you know, the word gets around in the Communist country, any dictatorial country, by word of mouth, and there were people on the streets, even more than we have seen today, a quarter of a million Poles on the streets of Warsaw that Sunday afternoon and they were cheering as you have cheered, but they were doing more. They were throwing flowers, hundreds and hundreds of bouquets into our cars and when the cars were stopped by the crowds downtown, I looked into their faces and I saw men and women, grown men and women, with tears streaming down their cheeks, and I heard them shout at the top of their voices "Niech Zyje, Niech Zyje, America." Long live America. Why? Because America stood for more than what Mr. Khrushchev had stood for - pure materialism, pure military might - because America stood for the ideal of freedom, for the dignity of men. All of these things America stood for to these people behind the Iron Curtain, and I say tonight to you: We shall always stand for these things and, as we do, we shall meet our responsibility to lead the world, lead it in the paths of peace, of freedom and progress for all. With that, may I thank you again for your wonderful reception here. May I thank the bands and all the choruses and all the rest who have spent hours in making this possible. And may I urge you, whatever may be your party: Go forth from this meeting, and if you believe that our team, the State team, the National team, can best provide the leadership that is best for America, then will you go out and work for us as you never have done before, remembering that you are working not just for a party, not just for a man, but that you are working for your country and for the ideals that make America the greatest nation on the face of the earth. Thank you very much.
I have spoken of the necessity for America's being strong militarily, strong economically, with a firm, wise, mature foreign policy if we are to keep the peace and extend freedom. But there is something else that is even more important than these, something else that I've already implied by what I have said, and that is this: The America of 185 years ago, that these schoolchildren have studied about as you and I did when we were in school, was not a strong country militarily but one of the weakest. It was not a large country economically, but had a poor agricultural economy. It was not even a strong country politically - 13 loosely united States at that period, with difficulty getting a strong central government. But, believe me, it was strong in the world because its ideals were strong, and I say to you today above everything else, let's remember that if we are going to win the struggle for peace and freedom, American must keep its moral and its spiritual strength strong as an ideal that all the world will respect, one the world will respect as I saw the people in Poland show their respect when I was there last year. In this connection, let me answer a question that is often asked me. People say, young people particularly but old people as well: "What can I do, Mr. Nixon, to work for the cause of peace and freedom?" There is something you can do. Keep America's ideals strong. Love of country is supposed to be old fashioned, but haven't we needed it? When the others are working for the victory of communism, we have got to work even harder for the victory of freedom and the ideals for which we stand around the world. Love of country, spiritual strength - where do these come from? Not from Washington. It can help, but they come from the home, from the churches and from the schools of America. And what can you do? Be America at its best in your lives, in everything you say and everything you do. Strike down prejudice where you see it. Strike down hatred where you see it - that is unworthy of this country. Remember that America in its strength is a country which is diversified. Diversity is our strength, but it is a strength only if we are united in the face of those who are opponents of all religion, of all idealism, of all freedom.
On Thursday, the President of the United States will present once again to the United Nations the deep yearning of the people of our country for a just and dependable peace - a peace in which all peoples can advance and prosper in systems of their own choosing rather than one in which enormous resources are consumed in ever - increasing amounts by instruments of death and destruction. Our President will be speaking in this world assembly not for Democrats, not for Republicans, not for independents, nor for sections or regions in our country. He will be speaking for all the American people; and behind him, I am convinced, will be proudly arrayed every last one of our countrymen, 180 million strong, no matter their party, no matter other subordinate considerations. This is a situation gravely important to our country and to the cause for peace. It places a special responsibility upon me, as I see it, upon Henry Cabot Lodge, upon our opponents in this campaign - the responsibility of conducting ourselves, in all that we say and do, with maturity and judgment. We have responsibility in avoiding resort to statements which tend to divide America, which tend to disparage America, and which in any way would encourage Chairman Khrushchev and his fellow dictators to believe that this Nation, the leader of the free world, is weak of will, is indecisive, is unsure of and hesitant to use her vast power, is poorly defended, is held at bay by imperialistic communism, or is divided in opinion on world affairs believing that the majority of mankind holds her in disdain. A great struggle was never won by a lack of belief in one's own strength and unity of purpose or by a defeatist attitude. We know the regimented Communists will march, lockstep, through the United Nations, hanging desperately together to avoid hanging one another separately. There will be, on their part, no deviation. We know that they, on their side, will exploit every distinction we draw among ourselves and that they will do their best to draw the United Nations - and us - into their web. In our press, on television, from our radios, we will read, see and hear the self-serving pronouncements of these single-purposed men. I say simply this: As our free Nation deliberately subjects itself, because of its freedom, to the impact of these dictatorial leaders and their twisted philosophy, let us not panic or search for faults in ourselves that would give strength to their distorted reasoning. Instead, let America, all partisanship aside, stand confidently in the right, united behind the President as he presents our case before the United Nations, secure and unperturbed in the knowledge that we are on the side certain ultimately to win - the side of freedom and justice, supported by our Nation's vast military and economic strength, the greatest on earth.
QUESTION. Have you any announcement? The VICE PRESIDENT. No. I have no announcement. We'll go right ahead with your questions. I am just waiting for these cameras to be ready to go. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in light of the controversy about the U-2 flight and the part it played in the breaking up of the summit, as the Soviets charged, NBC has furnished us with a transcript of last Sunday's "Meet the Press" appearance by Ambassador Lodge, in which this question was asked by Ernest Lindley: "But relative to the Soviet Union, do you think we have as much prestige and as much influence in the world as we had 8 years ago? Ambassador Lodge replied: "Let me just point to the U-2 case. You might say if ever there was a case we didn't have the law on our side it was the U-2 case and yet when the Soviet Union proceeded against us in the Security Council on the U-2 case, they got the most dreadful defeat. Now, does that show the Soviet Union has got more prestige than we have, when they had a case where, you might say, they had us in the wrong? To me, that answers your question in a convincing way." Do you agree with Ambassador Lodge? The VICE PRESIDENT. From a technical standpoint, Ambassador Lodge is correct. In peacetime, the gathering of intelligence information, while there is, of course, no body of international law which makes it illegal, is considered to be beyond the usual activities to be engaged in by countries that are supposed to be on peaceful terms. On the other hand, I think it should be pointed out that the kind of peace that we live in today is such that the United States and our allies have no other choice but to gather intelligence information in whatever way we can, not because we desire to do so, but because the aggressive actions of the Soviet Union and the other Communist countries require us to do so; and I think that was the reason why in the United Nations the other nations, all of whom perhaps would prefer that the world were such that it were not necessary for either the United States or its other allies to engage in intelligence activities of this type, did support us, because they recognized the practical situation and they recognized that if it were not for the aggressive actions of the Soviet Union, their threat to the peace of the world, the fact that they threatened surprise attack with their power, the United States would not have had these flights. So, technically, the Ambassador was correct. From a practical standpoint, the United States had the body of world opinion on its side. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, following Mr. Lawrence's question, if we were in the wrong on this from a nontechnical point of view, then do you think that you could criticize Senator Kennedy for offering the possibility of expressing regrets to Soviet Premier Khrushchev about this? If we are wrong from a moral point of view, I think your answer seems to imply, if not from a technical point of view, does the United States never express regrets on an occasion like this? The VICE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, I was implying exactly the opposite. I don't think the United States was wrong from a moral point of view. I think the United States was wrong only from a standpoint of a purely technical point of view. I think from a moral point of view we had no other choice because of the wrong which the Soviet Union obviously is engaging in the activities not only intelligencewise, but its aggressive moves throughout the world. We had no choice but to gather intelligence information in order to protect our friends and ourselves from possible Soviet and other Communist aggressive actions. Now, from the standpoint of Senator Kennedy's suggestion, it did not raise the question of morality that I have raised. Senator Kennedy has often said that the only reason he suggested that - and he used both words, as you recall, in his press conference in Portland or in Oregon - he used the word "apologize" and "regret", but he said the reason he did so was that it could have been tried, as I understand it, in order to save the conference. My point is this was a very naive attitude with regard to Mr. Khrushchev. My point is that, knowing him, as I do, and as I think others do, to express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for something that he knew was necessary, that he knew he was basically at fault for by reason of his own aggressive actions, would not have saved the conference. It would not have accomplished the end which Senator Kennedy suggested because - we go right back to the even more basic problem - this assumes that the reason Mr. Khrushchev broke up the conference is because of the U-2 flight, and there are very, very few observers who now believe that was the case. I certainly don't believe it was the case. I think there was a long trend of Mr. Khrushchev's statements prior to that conference that indicated that he intended to break it up for other reasons and that the U-2 flight was used only as an excuse. For the President to have apologized or to express regrets, as Senator Kennedy suggested, under those circumstances, would have been a mistake of the greatest magnitude, in my opinion, and I still say that, apart from the legalities, the technical legalities, at the present time the United States, under no circumstances, can refuse to continue - to continue, I say - to get intelligence information to protect us against surprise attack. We would be naive, but - more than that - the U.S. Government would not be rendering the service that it should and the protection that it should to the people of the United States if we did not have some intelligence-gathering activities of this type, regardless of the technical, legal problems to which Mr. Lawrence referred. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, under present circumstances, would you have restricted Premier Khrushchev to Manhattan Island and, if so, what would be your reasons for doing so? The VICE PREsIDENT. I would, and my reasons would be his own security. The worst thing that could happen with Mr. Khrushchev here would be to have an incident occur in which he was injured or in which he was subjected, for example, to what I was subjected when I was in Caracas, Venezuela. We had a very difficult time protecting Mr. Khrushchev on his previous trip. It took a great deal of action on the part of all of us, in the Government and outside the Government, working with the various Hungarian refugee groups and others who were determined to run various demonstrations against him to keep him in check, and that was a time when he came ostensibly on a friendly basis. Now he comes at a time when he has insulted the President. He comes at a time when he is taking a very aggressive and belligerent line toward the United States, and I think to allow him to travel beyond the confines of Manhattan Island would have put upon our intelligence people, and his own, a burden that they might not have been able to have met. I know that, of course, the immediate question that comes after that is: "Well, what about the Soviet Union? If we were to go there, they wouldn't restrict us." And the answer is: Of course not. But a police state is a lot different. It's very easy to give protection in a police state. It's tremendously different to give protection in a country like ours where we want to respect the rights of citizens peacefully to demonstrate. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, you say that, regardless of technicalities, we have an obligation to protect the country by getting information in whatever way we can. Are you saying that we should now be continuing the U-2 flights? The VICE PRESIDENT. Under no circumstances. The U-2 flights have been compromised as an intelligence source and should no longer be used. I say that the United States must continue to get intelligence information from the Soviet Union, and a President of the United States should - I want to make it very clear if I should become the President I would - continue to get intelligence information to protect the security of the United States. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, last night in your speech here you promised action on the depressed areas legislation. What I am curious about is: There are indications that a Democratic Congress will face the next President, be he Republican or Democrat. What I'm wondering is how you expect to get through your bill if the President couldn't get through his bill this time? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think the best answer to that is that I expect to have far more success with the next Congress than the two leaders had with this special session of the Congress. Now, to put that a little more specifically, the very fact that there happened to be a 2-to-1 Democratic majority, approximately, in both the House and the Senate, did not assure that the Democratic leaders could get through their program in the special session. Why couldn't they get it through? Because their program was simply out of step with what the majority of the Members of the Congress thought, not because the President was against it, as they implied, because when the President is against a program he has to have the support of people in order to sustain him. Now, once an election is held, a President who is elected will inevitably have public support, and Members of Congress do not simply vote their party line. They vote what people think. If I should win, I will have a great deal of public support for those particular positions that have been debated in the campaign, and I would think that I would be able to have reasonable success, particularly in the first session of the Congress, to get action on those parts of the program that I have made an issue. I would say the same, incidentally, for Senator Kennedy - that whoever is elected President has the support of the people, and Congress goes along with what people want, not what party leaders want, as the last session of the Congress so well illustrated. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in the 1956 campaign at Colorado Springs you envisioned the day - although you didn't say when - that we might have a 4-day workweek. Yesterday at Atlantic City Senator Kennedy said this is no time to cut the workweek. I wonder what your views are on that now, sir. The VICE PRESIDENT. I agree with him. At a time that we are in economic competition with the Soviet Union, and at a time when many of our unions - incidentally, sometimes without too much resistance from management - are resisting changes in work rules, laborsaving devices, automation, you cannot cut the workweek because a cut in the workweek now would mean a cut in the overall productivity of the country. What I was referring to, as you may recall, in my speech at Colorado Springs was the future when automation came actually into being on a large scale. That time will come, but the workweek can be cut when that time comes only when unions and management sit down together and determine to allow automation to come in with its full implications. It's quite obvious that when you have highly automated plants it will not take as many people to operate those plants, but we are still looking to the future and certainly this is not the case at this time, and Senator Kennedy is absolutely correct. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, a moment ago you said that you would expect to have better success than the Democratic leaders did in presenting legislation to the Congress because you would have the support of people who would obviously have elected you as President. As an element in the question before the last one, this makes it sound as though you are saying the President's program failed because it did not have the support of the people: That's the reason President Eisenhower could not get his program on depressed areas or something else through Congress. Would you enlighten us on that point? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. I will be glad to. The special session of the Congress was unique in the sense that it was purely political. There was very little opportunity that there would be anything accomplished in that session. A better test of what a President can do with a Congress that is against him, when the President does stand for programs that the people support, was the President's success with the Democratic Congress over the past 6 years, and the President has had very great success, I would say, with the Congress. The next session of the Congress will not be a special session. It will be a regular session, and the Congress will have no excuse for not considering responsibly the legislative proposals sent down by the administration and I believe that, for that reason, I would have, if elected President, success in getting through those parts of a program that have been debated and for which public support had been evidenced and thereby a public mandate, it seems to me, having been given to the Congress. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, now I would like to go back to your answer on the U-2 incident. You said we had known long before the breakup the Russians had planned to break it up, that it wasn't broken up over the U-2 flight. Why weren't people told that and why did the President waste his time in going there if that were the case? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think you know very well the reason for that, Mr. Potter, because you're somewhat of an expert in this field. The reason that the people were not told that is that the indications in these fields are from intelligence sources, as well as from Mr. Khrushchev's public actions. As far as his public actions were concerned, there were many evidences in the press indicating doubt that the conference would succeed - Mr. Khrushchev's very belligerent speeches that he made, a series of them, starting about 2 months before the conference, speeches which reacted to Mr. Dillon's speech, and also to some statements by the President, indicating that we were going to take a very strong stand on Berlin. Now, my own view is that one of the major reasons Mr. Khrushchev couldn't go to the conference was that he was on a limb on Berlin. He thought that he had the Western allies divided. He thought that he would be able to go to the Paris Conference and get a concession on Berlin. Then came a series of events - the President's meeting with De Gaulle, with Adenauer, with Macmillan - a series of events culminating in the Dillon speech, representing a big departure in the administration's view, and statements in the President's press conference, and then Mr. Khrushchev realized he could not expect to get his way on Berlin. I believe that was one of the main reasons for his deciding that some course of action had to be found for him to save face by not going to the conference. As far as the people were concerned, it was necessary for us - I'm speaking not only for the people of the United States but for the people of the world - with the posture that we have always taken, and I hope will always take in the future, to continue to stand until the last moment for going the extra mile to negotiate, to hope that some progress could be made. We have always taken that position. President Eisenhower has eloquently supported it, and I think under these circumstances, if the President, prior to this conference, had made a statement that he felt that there were indications that Mr. Khrushchev would not be susceptible to reasonable discussion at the conference, that therefore, we ought to consider breaking it off, we would have taken upon ourselves the burden, in the eyes of the world, of breaking up the conference, which the world very much wanted held because of their hopes that something could be accomplished. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, as presiding officer of the Senate, you were singularly successful in helping people change the rules of the Senate. As President, would you be sympathetic toward an effort to modify the present powers of the House Rules Committee? The VICE PRESIDENT. No; I would not. I think the House Rules Committee situation is different from the rules in the Senate. The House Rules Committee for example, in the field of civil rights, in which of course as you know I have a particular interest, and which was the major reason for changing the rules of the Senate, in my opinion has cleared civil rights legislation. In fact, through the years, the House has passed civil rights legislation, starting with the antilynching bills, antipoll tax and other bills which went through the house even when I was there and then were blocked in the Senate by the filibuster. I think there are other reasons, considering the great number of Members of the House, that make it necessary for the Rules Committee to channel the legislation to the House floor, and I favor retention of the present power in the Rules Committee. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, when you say, as you did last Monday and yesterday, that it should be the basis of our foreign policy, as it would be under you, not merely holding the line, but extending, as you say, the areas of freedom and liberty, are you thinking of the liberation of Poland and East Germany and other satellite areas or are you thinking of the liberation in other parts of the world? The VICE PRESIDENT. I am thinking of peaceful competition, in all of its aspects, on both sides of the Iron Curtain. I am thinking of the United States continuing to stand, diplomatically, at every conference that we attend, propagandawise and in all information activities in which we participate, for the right of people to have freedom of choice, and I'm thinking of giving moral support to the peoples behind the Iron Curtain - not to choose our system, but to choose whatever system that they want. In other words, I believe the United States must stand for peaceful change in that part of the world just as, frankly, the Soviet Union stands for change in the free world; and I have some ideas about the procedures which can he used that I will develop in a speech later in the campaign. QUESTION. I wanted to follow up that Paris summit conference question by asking: You were not surprised at all, then, by the abrupt manner in which Mr. Khrushchev broke off the summit conference? The VICE PRESIDENT. No. I was surprised. I will have to be honest to say that I thought Mr. Khrushchev was a better judge of world opinion than he proved to be. My view was that he selected a poor issue by which - and a poor time through which - to break up the conference. I believe Mr. Khrushchev was determined to have nothing happen at the conference, and eventually would have broken it up rather than to have taken a stalemate on Berlin; but for him whom all the world knew was engaging in worldwide espionage activities, and for him who was the aggressor, who made necessary our intelligence activities - for him to use the U-2 incident, about which he had indicated he had known, to break it up was such a patent subterfuge that he reaped what he should have expected from a whirlwind of opposition and disbelief among the neutral countries, after they had a chance to think it over, and among peoples around the world who wanted a discussion which might have relieved tensions and who didn't get it because of what he did. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, are you saying that the summit conference would not have been held at all without the U-2 flight or merely that Mr. Khrushchev would have gone and would have broken it up; it wouldn't have been a success? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think the more likely thing was the latter - that Mr. Khrushchev had to go because he had built it up. After all, he had been the one who had been insisting on the conference from the beginning, but I think he would have found other devices or excuses which would have been more reasonable. QUESTION. What was your impression of the reception you received in this strong Democratic territory? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, we naturally expected good crowds. What made them particularly impressive were two things: The fact that the weather was bad and the crowds were very good. That must prove that the people in these anthracite regions are pretty hardy people. The second thing that impressed us was what we sensed was very genuine warmth, enthusiasm among the people that were there. Of course, I realize in these campaigns both candidates and the press traveling with them, depending on their point of view, engage in what we call crowdsmanship. I would not, therefore, assume that, because we had good crowds here or anyplace, that means the campaign is over. I will say, however, that our crowds up to this point have exceeded our expectations, and the one last night, in view of the weather could not have been better. It was a very gratifying experience for which we are very thankful. QUESTION. Yesterday stock values slumped rather sharply. If there is a further deterioration during the campaign period, will it help the Democrats or the Republicans more in their chances? The VICE PRESIDENT. If there is a further deterioration in the stock prices? QUESTION. That's right. The VICE PRESIDENT. I would say that a deterioration in the economy generally which affected employment and particularly which affected public psychology with regard to employment would, of course, affect the campaign, and it would affect the Republican - the administration - candidate tremendously. As far as the movements in the stock market are concerned, until those movements are affected in employment, in the broad base of the economy, which people actually can feel, I don't believe it has a great effect on an election; but I could be wrong.
Thank you very much, Al, for introducing me so generously and vigorously to this wonderful crowd of your present constituents and I certainly hope your future constituents as you represent them in the U.S. Senate as you have represented them also in the U.S. House of Representatives. May I say that it is a great privilege to be here today with my colleagues on the Republican ticket. They've been introduced to you. You have shown your appreciation of them but I've been traveling with them throughout the day and we have one meeting left tonight. But in Paul Bagwell and Al Bentley you've got a fine team at the top of the ticket. I'm proud to run with them and I am glad to see that your candidate for the House, Jim Harvey, is so well thought of here. Let's give him a hand since he started this. [Applause.] As you can imagine, we've had a tremendously interesting and exciting day today traveling through Michigan. We started this morning in Pennsylvania where it was raining. We flew here to Mount Clemens and then we have been coming through the Michigan countryside until we arrived at Saginaw after our stop at Flint. We're a little late but the reason for being late is, of course, always a good one because along the sides of the streets you sometimes see crowds collected that weren't supposed to be there. There will be crowds of students, for example, one of the high schools down the road and another crowd of Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. Incidentally, speaking of high school students and Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, aren't these Nixon girls really wows? [Applause.] We think we'll just take them along with us through the whole United States of America. [Cheers.] You know I was watching a little of the returns from Atlantic City the other night when Miss Michigan was made Miss America and I can see that pretty girls are not unusual in Michigan after seeing these girls up here today. [Cheers.] I see some of the boys cheering over there too. May I say, too, that I greatly appreciate the signs and their novelties. I've been reading a few of them. This one I haven't seen before: "Nikita's a red Violet's blue Dick is the boy To give him his due." [Cheers.] One of the stops we made, incidentally, was one that I made 2 years ago in 1958. It was at the Michigan School for the Deaf. During the course of the day, I might say, that many people very kindly have asked me how my knee was. You recall I injured it, some of you may have, and spent a little time in the hospital. You know when you have a bad knee or something of that sort you really feel quite put upon, real rough, real rugged. You know we really don't appreciate how little our troubles are until we see how wonderfully people who have real troubles live through them. And as I saw these young children at the Michigan School for the Deaf with their eyes bright and their wide smiles, it made me realize what an inspiration their lives were for us. So you will excuse us for being a little late. That was one of our extra stops. Now I would like to talk to you today - not for too long because you've been standing here a long time - but I'd like to talk to you about this next election in terms of the future of these young people who are here before us, because that's really what we all think of. We think of ourselves, true. We have our own problems. But we're always looking forward in America. That's why we're a great country. We are people who are never satisfied with things as they are, good as they are. We want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves. And I'm sure that Paul Bagwell would say that, that that is his feeling as he runs for Governor of this State. He wants to give this State the kind of government that it deserves so that Michigan will move up into the front ranks, as it should be, industrially and every other way, by attracting new employment through the sound fiscal policies that he will adopt as the Governor of this great State when he is elected by these good folks in this audience and throughout Michigan. [Applause.] These are the things that Al Bentley wants. They are the things that Jim Harvey wants. And let me say something else. Incidentally, that little boy walked out of there. We've got to read that sign. Will you bring it around here again? Because otherwise his daddy'll give him the---. It says, "Next to St. Nick I go for Dick." That's pretty good. [Applause.] One thing I want to say is this. I don't stand before you today as I might as St. Nick. I don't stand before you as I might and say if you elect me President I am going to have the Federal Government do everything for you. I'll tell you why I don't. Not because it wouldn't be something that I would like to do but it wouldn't be good for the American people if we said the Federal Government is going to take care of this or that or the other thing. What has made America a great country is not what the Federal Government has done for people but what the Federal Government has encouraged people to do for themselves. The greatness of America are you people, the people of this country, 180 million strong, individuals making their tremendous contribution to the most productive, the most prosperous country that the world has ever known. That's what I believe. That's what these men believe. These are the things we stand for. So we think of the future of America, may I say that we stand for government which does the right things for the American people and that isn't a question always of which government does the most things or which does the least, but which does the right thing. May I say, too that in that connection I am very proud today to be running, following the record of the present President, President Eisenhower. On two previous occasions here at Saginaw I have appeared campaigning with him or in his behalf as part of the same ticket. I can say that the American people are going to be grateful for him for a number of things. One, for restoring honesty and dignity and integrity to the conduct of government in Washington, D.C., so that everybody could be proud of the man who was President of the United States. [Applause.] And two, for adopting policies under which we have had the greatest progress economically that this country has ever enjoyed, in which we have had the greatest progress in the field of providing equality for our opportunity, greater progress in these 8 years than in 50 years that went before. But above everything else, do you know what President Eisenhower will be remembered for? As the man who ended one war, who kept America out of other wars, and who has kept the peace without surrender for America today. This is the great accomplishment of President Eisenhower. [Cheers, applause.] And I say to you today that the most important qualification that you must look for in the man who is to be the next President of the United States is on that question. Does he have the ability? Does he have the background? Does he have the program that will keep the peace for America and will extend freedom throughout the world because the two go hand in hand together? And it's on that point that I want to talk to you today. I want to talk to you about it because, my friends, there is nothing more important than that. Oh yes, jobs are important, and schools are important for these young people, and better health, better hospitals. All these things are important. But most important is that we and our children want to be around to enjoy these things of life and, therefore, what policies can America follow which will keep the peace and will extend freedom? I can't, of course, discuss them in great detail but there are these things that I would particularly emphasize. First, this country, if we are to keep the peace must continue to be the strongest nation in the world. Now why? Not because we want to use our strength to run over anybody else, because we don't. Not because we want to use our strength to gain anything from anybody else, because we don't. I saw the American Legion post represented over here. You know, one of the proudest things about America is this: There are men in World War I in the Legion and the VFW; there are men in World War II; there are men in Korea. Hundreds of thousands of Americans have died in those three wars. Billions of American dollars have been paid out as a result of those three wars. And we have done all that - all that - for what? Not an acre of territory. Not a concession from anybody else. We have done it because America was fighting for peace and for freedom for the whole world, not just for ourselves, because we knew that when freedom was threatened elsewhere it was threatened for us. And this is a proud tradition and that's why we have and must have strength in the years ahead. Because as we are strong, you see, we can keep those who do not look upon the world as we do, who do want to extend their authority over others against their will, we can keep them from doing so. I am referring, of course, to the Communist leaders because they tell us what they want to do. They say we will conquer the world. We will do it without war if possible but we will do it with war if necessary. And particularly the Chinese Communists have said the latter.  But under those circumstances, you see, the United States as one that stands for peace, and we can be proud of that, as one that stands for freedom, and we can be proud of that, we as the guardians of peace and freedom must see that our strength is first in the world. So that is the first pledge that I make. The next President must keep the United States as strong as she is today and stronger still, so that regardless of what a potential enemy has, he will be deterred from ever launching attack because of our strength. Now what else do we need if we're going to keep the peace? We need policies, diplomatic policies which go right along with the strong military strength that I have referred to. By "diplomatic policies" I am referring, of course, to what the President and the Secretary of State do when they represent this country at great conferences. We had an example of that at the Paris Conference. You recall Mr. Khrushchev broke up that Conference. He said that he broke it up because of our U-2 flights that the President had ordered to get information with regard to their war preparations. Now, as a matter of fact, that was not the reason, we think. But you remember after he broke up the Conference, after he had insulted the President as he had, that there were some people in this country who raised a question about the President's conduct at this Conference. They said that perhaps he should have tried to have saved it, that he should have tried to have saved the Conference by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for these flights, or apologizing for them. Now, let me tell you why that would have been the wrong thing to do from a diplomatic standpoint. First, because it shows such a naive attitude with regard to the men in the Kremlin. An apology or expressing regrets without getting something in return would not have satisfied him. It wouldn't have saved the Conference. It would only have whetted his appetite and made him demand more. There was another reason, too, why the President of the United States could not and should not have done that. I say that that reason is that no President of this country must ever apologize or express regrets for attempting to defend the security of the United States against attack by somebody else. [Applause.] So we must be firm. We must be nonbelligerent. We must be willing to negotiate. But in dealing with the men in the Kremlin we must remember that when we negotiate they are men who respect power, they are men who respect firmness, they are men who have nothing but contempt for weakness. So firmness and strength are the way to peace and I say this based on my own experience, having met Mr. Khrushchev, having met other Communist leaders, knowing how they react. So in these fields, then, military strength, diplomatic strength, the United States, if we are to keep the peace, must continue the firm, strong, wise leadership that we have had under President Eisenhower. Now what else do we need if we're going to meet this great objective which is America's responsibility in the world to lead the world to peace and to freedom? My friends, we've got to keep the economy of this country, its productivity, strong. We have to keep it sound. It must grow. But in order to grow it must be free. Now I know that there are those who suggest that the way to get greater production in America is for the Federal Government to move in with massive spending programs here, there, and everywhere else. But let me tell you this: The reason that we have become the most prosperous nation in the world is not what Government has done, but, as I indicated a moment ago, because of what 180 million free American people have been stimulated to do by Government and by their own activities. And we shall move forward, we shall move to the greatest heights America has ever experienced, but we shall move forward only if we stay true to the principles that have made America great. We shall not move forward if we turn back to policies that we left in 1953. I say this is the road that America should follow. It is the road to economic strength, and that strength is essential if we are to survive in this struggle in which we are engaged. Now the last point that I would like to make, and the last one, as usual, is the most important one, is this: We need America strong militarily and economically, with a better life for our citizens through the years than we had for ourselves. But, above all, we need to have the moral and spiritual strength in this country which will enable America to lead the forces of freedom, not just to hold the line but to lead them to victory, to lead them to victory without war. Now, what do I mean there? Now, you students here in high school, you've read a lot about American history. You remember the early days of this country. We weren't a strong nation militarily then; very, very weak, as a matter of fact. We weren't a strong nation economically. But America caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago. Why? Because of what we believe. We believe in the dignity of men. We believe in the right of all men to be free. We believe in the right of nations to be independent. We believe that these rights did not come from men but that they came from God. And the moral and spiritual strength of America was the greatness of America then and, my friends, it's the greatness of America today. [Applause.] So I say to all of you when you ask what can I do to help in this fight for freedom, to see that America does stand up for those things which will extend freedom throughout the world. I'll tell you what you can do. Moral strength, spiritual strength, love of country, patriotism, these things that are so essential, they can help the people, Government leaders, Senators, Congressmen, Presidents, Vice Presidents, what they say in producing those things. But they don't come from them; they come from you. They come from the home. They come from the church. They come from the school. They come from your hearts and your souls and your minds. And whether America does lead the world, as I am confident we can and we will, to peace and to the extension of freedom, depends upon all Americans. And I urge you to do your best for America. Do your best in seeing that our young people make their maximum contribution to our Nation in whatever they may choose as their occupation. Do your best in striking down prejudice and in working for equality of opportunities so that America may tap the resources of all of our people, so that nobody is left behind as America moves ahead. Do your best in strengthening the moral and spiritual fiber of our young people and of our older people, of all Americans. Because as you do your best, then America can be strong, really strong, not just with military might, not just with economic strength and productivity of factories and farms and great centers like Saginaw, but strong where it really counts - in our hearts, in our souls, and in our minds. And finally today, may I tell you that when you go to the polls next November 8, you will be making a decision about the future of your country, a decision tremendously important, and I'm going to ask you to make it on this basis. I ask you, whether you are Republicans or Democrats, to think not of the party label, but of the country. And if you believe that the leadership that my colleague and I can provide to the leadership America needs, then you should work for us - if you believe that. And may I say in that connection, having referred to him, that I am proud to be with him on this ticket because I don't think there is any man in the world today who has done a better job of standing for peace and for freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge in the United Nations representing the United States. [Cheers and applause.] So as I close I ask you for your support for us, but I ask it on this basis: Support us because you believe that we can furnish the leadership that America needs. Vote for us on that basis. Work for us on that basis. And vote and work for us between now and election day and for these other candidates, recognizing that you're voting for something bigger than just a man or a personality, something bigger than a party; that you're working for your country, for what is best for America, and for what is best for America's responsibility to lead the world to peace and freedom. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much [applause] Ross Adair. I remember that meeting 4 years ago very well, and I remember after we went back to the plane on that day, that many of us remarked that it was one of the most enthusiastic, one of the biggest meetings we had in the 1956 campaign. We didn't see how any could surpass it and few would equal it. And I want to thank you today for making that crowd seem very small and very unenthusiastic. We thank you for this wonderful welcome which you have given us today. [Applause.] I have just been informed by the sheriff, that this is by far the biggest crowd ever to gather at this area in Fort Wayne and we thank you for making it possible. [Applause.] I want to apologize, too, for being late. The problem is not the weather on the ground but the weather in the air. We had to circle a bit before coming down. We do thank you so much for waiting, standing here as you are. As a matter of fact, I felt a little embarrassed a moment ago, when I was introduced I turned around and said "Won't you sit down?" and I don't know where you would sit unless you would sit on each other. [Laughter.] But while it isn't raining here, it seems to be snowing from the Lincoln National Bank & Trust Co. [applause] but this kind of weather in a campaign we enjoy and we like and we do appreciate all of those who went to such a great trouble to plan this wonderful rally, and arrange for the music, and for our Singing Nixon Girls over here, and for our wonderful band over here, we thank all of you and we only wish we had more time to spend with you on this occasion. But you know, we found this a pretty big country and to get to 50 States during the course of 8 weeks is a big job. For example, today, after we leave Fort Wayne, and we just came from Michigan, we go over to Louisville, Ky., for a meeting at noon and then we go over to Springfield, Mo., for a meeting at night, and the next day 3 more States, and the next day 2 more States, and by the end of the week we'll have 7 more States that we will have covered. So that is the reason for the very fast pace and the fast schedule, because I can assure you that coming home to Indiana is always a great pleasure to me. [Applause.]  I was saying to Governor Handley, it seems a long time ago because we have been so far and been to so many meetings, as I was saying to him, in Indianapolis, when we started the formal part of this campaign on Monday, Indiana has a special place in my heart for reasons that all of you are aware. During the years I was growing up, my mother used to talk about "back East" and that meant Indiana, where she was born, on a farm down in Butlerville, down in Jennings County. And during those 12 years that she lived there, it must have made a tremendous impact because while the rest of her 75 years she's lived in California, and you know how Californians feel about California, my mother is still for Indiana, I can assure you. This is her State. [Applause.] And, incidentally, people often ask me, Mr. Nixon, where do you get that fighting quality in a campaign? Well, I can only say that while my mother is a very gentle, and tolerant Quaker lady, that apparently I got a little of that Indiana fight from her as well, because I know out here we take our politics very seriously. You believe very deeply and I particularly appreciate the opportunity to talk to all of you today - Republicans, Democrats, independents - because this is in the great American tradition, where we all gather together to listen to the man that some of us are for, and listen to the man that some of us may be against, but listening because we want to be sure that the decision we make is not made on a purely personal basis, not made simply on the basis of a party label, but made on the basis of what's best for America. And that is the basis on which I talk to you here today. [Applause.] Before presenting some of the issues at the national level, may I say that I am delighted to run on the same ticket with our fine State ticket here. Lieutenant Governor Parker could not be here, but I can see there is his sign up there and certainly after the splendid administration of Harold Handley, we're going to continue Indiana in the Republican tradition in the State House in Indianapolis by voting for him. [Applause.] Now, Ross Adair is a man perhaps you know from his newsletters home, has been one of my closest friends and associates in the Congress. He has advised me often on matters before the House of Representatives and I'm so delighted to be able to be here and, in front of his constituents, and to tell you what we think of him in Washington. We like him. We think he is a man who not only represents his district well, but who does a fine job for the Congress and for all the people of the United States and we want him back, and we hope you send him back. [Applause.] Now, since I left Indianapolis 10 days ago, we have been to many States - east, west, north and south - in California, in Oregon, in Washington, and then in the Mountain Plain States to Idaho, in North Dakota. We have been in the heart of the Midwest - Illinois, to Michigan yesterday. We have been in the East, in Pennsylvania, New Jersey. We have been to the South, in Virginia and Texas - all of this in the space of 10 days. And we have talked to a lot of different crowds, different places. Some in great squares like this. Some in great armories and halls in the evening. We have also talked to different groups of people, to a great group of farmers at a plowing contest out in the heart of Iowa, where the tall corn grows. And incidentally, it grows tall in Indiana, my mother tells me, too, as well as in Iowa. And we have also talked to great groups of those representing the American labor movement at their convention of machinists in St. Louis, and as we have talked to these groups and traveled about the country, there is one thought that has occurred to me that I would like to pass on to you. You know, we hear a lot in this country about how different we are. The northerners disagree with the southerners and the mid-Westerners think differently than the easterners, and so on down the line. We also think how Americans are always thinking only of their own special little group. The labor people are thinking of one thing, and management people are thinking of something else, and that their interests are diametrically opposed, that the farm people want one thing and the city people want something else, and that their interests are opposed. You know what I find about this country? And it is one of the most inspiring things to be able to travel over the country as Pat and I have, and to talk to great groups like this. It is, yes, that while there are differences north, east, west, and south in our accents and the food that we eat, while there are differences between our various groups, some of them put more emphasis on one thing than another, may I say that the great ideals that unite Americans are the things that impress you when you travel this country. And I would say, as I have traveled this country, what has impressed me above all else is this. There is one issue that Americans are thinking about as they vote for President and Vice President. Whatever part of the country they come from, whatever group that they may be a part of, there is one issue that they are thinking of above everything else, and that is which of the two candidates for the Presidency, which of the two candidates for the Vice-Presidency, can best give America and the free world the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. [Applause.] Now, it is logical - I'm sure you can see why everybody feels this way, all the way from Hawaii in the very Far West to Maine, in the very North, or down East, as they say in Maine. They feel this way because Americans realize that unless we can keep the peace, unless we can keep our freedom, all the other things that we want from government and from life won't be worth anything at all because we won't be around to enjoy them. We want, in other words, our children to grow up in a land of peace and freedom such as we have had under the leadership of President Eisenhower, who ended one war and has kept America out of another war. [Applause.] And so, I want to tell you, in just a few words what I think the next President must do to keep the peace without surrender and to extend freedom, not only to defend it, because in order to defend it you must extend it around the world. First, we must have an analysis of the men we are dealing with. And I think it is rather good that Americans are having another opportunity to see Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues in the Communist world as they come to the United States. Because when they are there, we are reminded of the kind of men that they are. I know most of these men. I know Mr. Khrushchev, his other colleagues, some in person, some by reports that I've had the opportunity, of course, to read as some of you have. And I can tell you that knowing them, that if America is to keep the peace, if we are to extend freedom, we must recognize, first of all, that these are men who do not react like the leaders of the free world. You cannot humor them as you deal with Prime Minister de Gaulle, for example, and Chancellor Adenauer, or Prime Minister Nehru of India, or Mr. Macmillan of England, or President Eisenhower of the United States because these are men who have a different view about the world. First of all, look at us. We Americans have fought three wars in this century. For what? Talk to your legionnaires, your VFW people, they'll tell you. We didn't get an acre of territory. We didn't ask for a concession. We fought why? One, to keep our own freedom. Two, because we were interested in the freedom of others, and we realized that when it was threatened, ours was as well. And today Americans are not interested, and the British are not interested, and the French, none of the other people in the free world are interested in extending our domination over anybody else. What do we want for the rest of the world? Only what we have for ourselves - the right to choose, the right to be independent, the right to be free, and that's what distinguishes us first from the Communist leaders because they don't say that. Mr. Khrushchev, Mr. Mao Tse-tung, the Chinese leader, say, over and over again, we must rule the world and we will conquer the world, and they say, over and over again, we will accomplish this and without war, if we can, Mr. Khrushchev says, but they also indicate that they are going to accomplish this end by any means, if they can. And so, therefore, you are dealing with men who are determined to conquer the world. How else do they differ from the men in the free world? That means that these men, because they are determined to conquer the world, respect power and they respect strength, and they have nothing but contempt for weakness, they have nothing but contempt for those who are naive in dealing with them. So, if America is to keep the peace, if we are to extend freedom, we must first start by seeing to it that America remains as she is today, the strongest nation in the world militarily and that we will pay the cost to see that America retains this military strength. [Applause.] We must combine this military strength, too, with diplomatic policies that are strong and firm, not naive, not naive, for example as some of those who have criticized the President after the recent Paris Conference. You remember after that conference - Mr. Khrushchev broke it up. He said it was because of the U-2 flights that President Eisenhower had ordered for the purpose of getting information to protect us against surprise attack. He said he broke it up over that, but our information indicates that there were other reasons, but whatever the reason was, you remember that after President Eisenhower came back, there was a chorus of criticism from some quarters. And there were some who said that President Eisenhower made a mistake in one respect. He should have made more of an effort to save the conference, that when Mr. Khrushchev demanded that he express regrets for these flights that possibly President Eisenhower could have done that because it might have saved the conference and then we'd have made progress toward peace. You know why the President couldn't do that? There were two reasons. First, because in dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev, when you make a concession without getting a concession in return, you don't serve the cause of peace. You work against it. You don't serve the cause of freedom. You work toward the cause of surrender, because in dealing with a Communist leader, any dictator, whenever you engage in activities which prove you to be naive, or whenever you make concessions that are not, at the same time, matched by concessions on their part, the inevitable result is that they are not satisfied. They ask for more. They demand more. And so President Eisenhower was right in this respect on that ground, and he was right on another ground. No President of the United States, be he Democrat or Republican, must ever feel it necessary to apologize or express regrets for defending the United States of America against surprise attack. [Applause.] Now what else do we need in the way of diplomatic policy? We need, of course, a policy that is not rash, one in which we are not answering insult for insult, tit for tat in the world arena of the war of words that goes on. Here again there is good reason. Oh, it's awfully easy to lose your temper when you are talking to a man like Mr. Khrushchev. I know, but I can tell you this. That the reason the President was correct in not losing his temper and in not getting down and answering Mr. Khrushchev insult for insult in Paris was a very simple one. One, no President can indulge in the luxury of losing his temper for personal reasons when, by doing so, he would risk heating up the international atmosphere rather than cooling it off. And another reason, when you are confident in your strength, when you know you are right, you don't get down to the level of somebody who calls names and indulges in insults like Mr. Khrushchev. [Applause.] And now there is another reason. Other reasons which are more current than the ones that I have mentioned, for the kind of diplomatic policies that America must follow if we are to keep the peace without surrender. Mr. Khrushchev is in the United States at the present time. He is going to say some things, do some things which are designed to irritate and to provoke us, designed to divide Americans, divide us on a party basis, divide us on a group basis or on any basis that he can probably think of. Now, is this going to hurt ? Is this visit to the United Nations going to hurt the cause of peace and freedom? And my answer is it won't, provided Americans act in a mature, grown-up fashion, and aren't taken in by his efforts to provoke us or divide us and remain united and confident with faith in America's strength. This is what we must do during the time that he is here and afterward, as well. And might I suggest that there are some things that we should not do while Mr. Khrushchev is here. One, I do not believe that it serves the cause of peace or freedom to talk about America's weaknesses, militarily, to talk about America's falling behind economically, to indicate that America is losing the battle of ideas throughout the world and that our prestige is falling throughout the world. I'll tell you why that shouldn't be done. One, because it isn't true; but, too, there is another reason. At a time when we are pointing up the things that are wrong about the United States and it is a responsibility to do so that we can correct them, let us never forget that when one who is also here pointing up what is wrong about the United States, it is up to us to point out the things that are right about the United States, and that are strong about the United States as well. [Applause.] This isn't a perfect country - no, but it is just the best country on earth, that's all. [Applause.] We haven't got a military operation as far as our defense strength is concerned, that everybody agrees is the perfect one but it is just the strongest military power in the world ever seen and we are going to keep it that way and let's tell Mr. Khrushchev that. [Applause.] Now our economy has some weaknesses, and we intend to do something about those weaknesses. We must continue to see that America's economy grows and that no Americans are left behind, that all of them, regardless of their races, creed, or color go along with this great increase in America's productivity. Our farmers, our working people, everybody must move forward. But while America's economy has weaknesses, my friends, travel around the world if you have any doubts about it - it is just the finest economy in the world and Americans have the best life, the richest life, we have the greatest productivity of any nation in the world, and the Communists aren't going to catch us in 7 years as Mr. Khrushchev says. They aren't going to catch us in 70 years because we are going to move forward faster than he is. [Applause.] And here is another thing they have been saying. Oh, this terrible crying and beating of breasts about the poor prestige of the United States. I remember in 1956, when I spoke here, the other candidate, the one running in 1956 on the other ticket, was saying the same thing - American prestige was at an all-time low. And now the same dd record has been brought up, but it is a little worn, getting a little raspy now and people are getting tired of hearing that America's prestige has gone down all over the world. [Applause.] Let me tell you something about America's prestige. Has everything we have done been right in the field of foreign policy? Of course not. We're going to make mistakes and they're going to make mistakes. The batting average is what counts. And on the batting average, the American batting average is a very good one in this area, and as far as prestige is concerned, I point to a vote in the United Nations which just occurred on the Congo. Now if our prestige were low, the Russians were on one side and we were on the other side, how many votes did they get? None. How many votes did we get? Seventy. Well, 70 to nothing is pretty good in football and it is pretty good in the United Nations. [Applause.] And for those who talk about our prestige, does Mr. Khrushchev gain in prestige because he breaks up a conference, a conference that is designed to alleviate tensions? And does President Eisenhower lose prestige for America because he maintains dignity and say I will go an extra mile? Of course not. Talk about the situation, for example, in Cuba. Does Mr. Khrushchev gain prestige because he shoots down hundreds of thousands of people in the streets of Budapest in Hungary? And does President Eisenhower lose prestige for America because he does not use our great power as he could against Mr. Castro in Cuba and the Cuban people? But he works with other American States in developing the opinions which will keep the Cuban people on our side when eventually they get the right to choose the kind of government they want to. No; we gain; they don't. Does Mr. Khrushchev gain prestige when he runs riots against the Vice President of the United States in Caracas, riots against the President's visit in Tokyo No. Those who engage in this kind of activity, they may gain a temporary advantage, but the people of the world are not dumb, and they realize that the United States stands for freedom, that we stand for peace, that we are strong, that we are not weak, and I say let all Americans have confidence and faith in our strength, in our policy, and in the rightness of our cause. And my final point. What can you do? I have talked to you about our policies. You know what is the most important ingredient if we are to have peace and friendship and freedom throughout the world? If America is going to give the world the leadership that it needs, it isn't our military strength. That's important and terribly necessary, as I indicated. And it isn't our economic strength. But it is the ideals of America, the moral and spiritual strength of this country, and never forget that when the people of the world are trying to choose between communism and freedom, it is American ideals that are going to be cited, and I say to you, you are the ones that must keep them strong. Oh, we can help at the national level, but what we feel about the dignity of man, what we feel about the respect for God, recognizing that the rights that we have do not come from men but they come from God and must be respected, for that reason what we feel about the universal right of people to be free, what we feel deeply in our hearts about peace, what we feel about loyalty to our country, that must come from you. It must come from the school, it must come from the family, it must come from the hearts of the American people. And so I say to all of you today, if you believe in America, you can play your part and play your part well by strengthening the moral and spiritual fiber of this country, by striking down prejudices and hatred wherever you see it, by letting America always be a fine example of idealism which has caught the imagination of the world and has held it for 185 years. And so now may I thank you again for welcoming us so well, for being so patient; and may I urge you, if you believe as I believe, if you believe that our ticket can give the leadership that America needs - and may I say with Henry Cabot Lodge coming here tomorrow to Indiana - I'm proud to be on the ticket with him. He will be a partner with me, and while I can't talk about my qualifications, I can about his, and I say no man in the world has done a better job fighting for the cause of freedom and peace in the United Nations than our candidate for Vice President. [Applause.] That is our case. I've presented it to Republicans. I've presented it to Democrats, and I say that if you think that is the leadership that America needs, won't you go out and not only vote for us, but work for us, working not just for a party, not just for a man, but working for what is best for America and the ideals for which we stand. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
I have been doing a lot of traveling, as you know. This is one of three States we'll visit today. In fact we started in the morning in Michigan. We've already had a meeting in Indiana, in Fort Wayne. After we leave here, we go over to Missouri, to Springfield, and so it goes for the balance of the week. As a matter of fact, beginning on Monday of last week, when we started our intensive campaign in Indianapolis, we've been all over this country. We've been in California, Oregon, and Washington in the West. We've been down in the South, in Texas and Virginia. We have been in the Midwest, in Illinois and in Michigan. We've been in the East, in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. I think you folks here perhaps will be interested in what our reactions are of what we have seen, for just a moment, if I may. First, we've been tremendously inspired by these great throngs of people like this one; but, may I say, John, and may I say to the mayor of this city, who so graciously met us at the airport, that I don't think any welcome could exceed in size or enthusiasm the one Louisville, Ky., has given to us today. We know that welcome comes not only from the members of our party who are going to vote for us, but also from the members of both parties who may be considering voting otherwise, and that is in the fine American tradition. We want to give you our case, and we are so glad that you give us the opportunity to talk to you, as we do today. Now, what do we find about America? You know, the thing that has impressed me most about this trip today is this: All over this country we hear so much about how different we are. The northerners and the southerners look at things differently, they say, and the people, for example, in a labor organization will look at things differently than those who happen to be in a management organization, and the people on the farms, for example, at a great farm meeting that I spoke to in Iowa, don't see things like the people in the city do. My friends, it's true that we Americans have some differences - North, East, West, and South. Our accents are a little different. I went to school down at Duke, and I can tell a difference between a Kentucky and a Tennessee accent. You've got to be pretty good to do that, incidentally. Our accents are different, our customs are different and sometimes we have different attitudes, but, believe me, the things that Americans agree on, the things that unite them, the great principles, the ideals of this country that unite Americans are infinitely greater than all the things that divide us on a regional or a class or any other basis; and certainly, as I stand here in front of this great statue of Thomas Jefferson, I would say that the ideals for which he stands and for which he stood belong to all Americans and not just to one party, and I am proud to say that our platform adopted at Chicago is much closer to the principles of Thomas Jefferson than the platform adopted in Los Angeles - and that's why millions of Democrats are going to vote for our candidates. But may I also say this: What did I find to be the issue above everything else that people are thinking about? What is the major question that the people of this country will be answering when they vote on November the 8th? You know, it's the same everyplace you go. It's the same in Hawaii and the Far West as it is in Maine, down East, and it's this: It's the question of which of the two candidates for the Presidency and the two candidates for the Vice Presidency can best provide for America and the free world the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. Why is it that this is the issue that everybody agrees is the major one? I'll tell you why. We're all concerned about other things. We want good jobs and we want good security in our old age. We want better schools for our children. We want better health. All of these things we want, and all of these things I'm proud to say we stand for in our party; but, my friends, you know, just as in every audience I have spoken to, regardless of where they may be, we could have all these good things at home and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. So, the first responsibility that you have, regardless of the party, as you vote on November 8, is this: Consider which of the candidates, which of the programs, can best lead America in the paths of peace without surrender and toward freedom for all the world. Obviously, I'm a little prejudiced on that question, but I would like to talk to you about it, if I can, for a moment now. I think that if we're going to have peace and if we're going to extend freedom the first thing we must do is to examine those who threaten the peace of the world. And who are they? Not America. Not any of our allies in the world. Not the great countries of Asia and Africa or India, where John served so ably as Ambassador with his wife. But the only threat to the peace today is the one presented by the international Communist movement whose representative is presently in New York City at the U.N. Now, since this is the only threat to the peace of the world, if you're going to have peace, since this is the only threat to the freedom of the world if we're going to have freedom, we must have policies that will deal with Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues effectively. What kind of man is he? I think I know him reasonably well. I think I know his colleagues and I know their philosophy, and the first thing we must remember - and the next President must never forget this - is that these men do not react like the leaders of the free world, Mr. Macmillan, Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Eisenhower, and the others. They have an entirely different philosophy because, you see, they have one obsession above everything else, and that is to conquer the world, to conquer it by force if necessary, by other means, if possible, and, therefore, we begin, if we want peace and if we want freedom, with men who are determined to conquer the world who respect only power. We must see to it that they are never in a position where they think they could start a war and gain by it. And, so, what does this mean that the first ingredient of American policy must be? It is this: America must continue to be what she is today - the strongest nation in the world militarily - and we must continue to pay whatever is necessary, whatever that cost may be, to maintain that strength. But, you see, that's only a beginning - military strength. In addition to military strength, you've got to have the right kind of diplomatic policy, a policy that is strong, a policy that is geared to meet men like Mr. Khrushchev. And again what kind of policy should it be? It has to be firm. It must never make a concession without getting a concession in return. You must never assume again that he is going to react like the leaders of the free world. Let me give you an example. You remember the Paris Conference that Mr. Khrushchev broke up when he said, "I'm breaking it up over the U-2 flights that President Eisenhower ordered in order to get intelligence information about their war preparations against the free world." After that conference there was a lot of criticism of the President on two scores. Some folks criticized him on the ground - they said, "You know, the President shouldn't have taken all that abuse from this fellow. He shouldn't have stood there, as he did, and taken that abuse. He should have answered his insults just as good as he received." I want to tell you why the President was wise and right not to talk back in that way. First, when you're confident of your cause, when you know you're right, when you're confident of your strength, you never lose your dignity by getting down in the ring and answering insults with insults. And, second, we also must remember that no President can have the luxury of losing his temper when he's dealing in these important international conferences. Believe me, it's hard to hold your temper when you're talking to a man like Khrushchev. I know. But here again President Eisenhower knew, our next President, our next Secretary of State, our next Vice President must know, that never must we engage in a war of words with our adversaries which might heat up the international atmosphere and cause us to end up in another kind of war. So, on these two counts, the President was right and his critics were wrong. But all the critics weren't that way. Some were another way. They said," No one can question the President being perhaps not as hard as he might have been with Mr. Khrushchev." They said, "Why didn't he do more to save that conference? Why couldn't he," as some suggested, "have expressed regrets for these flights or apologized for them? And that might have saved the conference." I'll tell you why he couldn't do that. [Cries of "No."] He couldn't do that for reasons you have already indicated you know: (1) Because no President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, can ever express regrets for attempting to defend this country against surprise attack; but (2) there's even a more fundamental reason. Those who suggest that expressing regrets would have saved the conference show a terribly naive attitude about the Communists and how they react because when you would have done this it would not have saved the conference. It would not have satisfied Mr. Khrushchev. It would only have whetted his appetite and Americans have learned - and we must continue always to remember - that when you're dealing with a dictator you must never make concessions without getting something in return because that is not the road to peace. It is the road to surrender or even to war. So, therefore, the President was right again in that respect. And then we have a more recent example of how our next President and how the American people ought to conduct themselves in the diplomatic arena. Mr. Khrushchev is here at the United Nations, and he's going to say some things that we don't like while he's here. He's going to do some things that we don't like. He's going to say those things and he's going to do them in order to provoke us, in order to divide us. Some people have expressed concern. They have said, "Mr. Vice President, it's a terrible thing that this fellow is over here. It's really going to hurt America." My friends, it is going to hurt America only if Americans lose their heads and lose their maturity and if they allow him to divide us and this we will never do while he is in this country or at any other time. How should we react? I'll tell you how we should react. We should react, as we are as a nation, knowing that we're in the right, confident of our strength, with faith in our system. Oh, I know Mr. Kennedy suggested last night he was going to continue to point up the weaknesses of the United States even while he is here. That is his privilege. Just let me say this: When we point up the weaknesses of our country, something that is one of the strengths of a great country, this is the way we correct them; but when we point out those things that are wrong about America let us not overlook the things - and there are many more things - that are right about this country. And I say to those critics who, during this period, will be saying "Ah, America's military strength is shaky," and they point out the things that are wrong about our military strength: Let's never forget the truth. And you know what the truth is, and Mr. Khrushchev knows this and must be told it again. Militarily, we are today - and we will continue to be in the future - the strongest nation in the world. This is the truth. We hear about the things that are wrong about our economy. "Oh, we're slipping. Mr. Khrushchev is going to pass us by." I remember what he said to me when I was in Moscow. He said, "Oh, Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now, but our system is better than yours." He said, "We're moving faster than you are and we're going to pass you by, and when we go by we're going to wave and say, 'Good-bye. Come on and follow us and do as we do.'" Incidentally, I know one story that went around at the Moscow Fair about one of those who went to the Moscow exhibition. A Russian wrote in a book: "Dear Mr. Khrushchev, when you go by the United States, please let me off. I don't want to go with you." But in any event, using another analogy, when Mr. Khrushchev was in India - John, you will remember this, and Lorraine - he made a very interesting comment that you folks down in Kentucky with your great Derby will appreciate. He said, "You know, this competition between the United States economically is like a horse race." He said "The United States is riding an economic system that is an old broken-down horse, lame in two legs and not too good in the other two, whereas we are riding a fresh young vigorous horse and, while we're behind him now, we're going to pass the United States." My friends, he's wrong. He's not going to catch us, not in 7 years or in 70 years. He's wrong, provided we don't make the mistake of trying to get on his horse rather than staying on our own. He's wrong. He's wrong provided we don't continue what we have been doing, making our horse and our economic system go just as hard as it can, without constantly looking over our shoulders to see what he's going to be doing. May I say, my friends, when they talk about the things that are wrong about the economy of the United States, remember, it's still over twice as productive as his. It's still the richest country, with the best standard of living, of all of the countries in the world and of all civilizations. That's what's right about America. And one other point I could make: We hear a lot about American prestige. We tell Mr. Khrushchev, our critics, when he comes here, they have a right to say it if they believe it, but let me say what the truth is as I see it. They say, "American prestige is at an alltime low. Nobody likes us anymore in the world and we're at fault because of the policies that we've had. They don't like us in Japan," they say, "and they don't like us in the Congo, and they don't like us in other parts of the world." Well, let me say this about American prestige. We had a test of it just a couple of days ago in the United Nations. There was a vote about the Congo, and on that vote Russia was on one side and we were on the other side. You know what the vote was? And this would be a good score in football. It's a tremendous score also in international relations. He didn't get any votes. The score was 70 to 0, and that's a score for American prestige. And, so, I say to you on this element of prestige: Where is our sense of values? Does Mr. Khrushchev gain prestige when in Hungary he shoots down thousands of Hungarian students and workers in the streets of Budapest? And do we lose prestige when in Cuba, where we have all the power in the world, we do not use the power, but we work through an Organization of American States to attempt to bring that country back into the paths of freedom? Does he gain and we lose? Of course not. Does he gain prestige when he breaks up a conference like the Paris Conference, when he blocks the road to peace? Do we lose when President Eisenhower goes the extra mile and talks for it? Of course not. Does he gain prestige when he runs riots against the Vice President in Caracas and against a President in Tokyo? Of course not. The answer is that American prestige today is high in the world, and it will continue to be high, for the reason - a last point that I want to make today: I have spoken of our military strength, which is essential to keep the peace. I have spoken of our diplomatic policy, which must be firm and nonbelligerent, and constantly willing to negotiate, but never willing to make a concession without getting a concession in return. But, my friends, if we are gong to win the struggle for freedom, if we are going to extend freedom, if the people of Africa and Asia and Latin America, all of them, wondering which way to go, so many of them are going to go our way, let me tell you what is more important than military strength. Go back to Thomas Jefferson. When he was President of this country, it was a very weak country militarily. It couldn't have withstood any one of a half dozen major powers. It was a very weak country economically, a very weak agricultural economy, with very little industrialization but it was one of the strongest nations in the world in its appeal. Do you know why? Because its ideals were right. America of that day and America of today stood for what? Listen to these things. It stood for the freedom not only of Americans, but for people everywhere. As Thomas Jefferson said when the Declaration of Independence was written, "We act not for ourselves alone, but for all mankind." America stood for freedom. It stood for the dignity of every man, woman, and child, regardless of his background. It stood for the recognition that the rights that we have, the rights of man, do not come from man, but they come from God. It stood for respect for God, and all these things America stood for, and I tell you today - I tell you today - that this is what we need above everything else: Strength in the moral and spiritual fiber of this country. So, I urge you to do this. I can't tell you that a President is the one who can strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of America. Oh, he can help by what he says and what he does, but that must come from you. It must come from our people. It must come, this love of country, this idealism, from the home. It must come from the church. It must come from the community. It must come from the hearts of the American people. So, I say to all of you: Do what you can to make America a proud example of freedom. Do what you can to strike down prejudice wherever it exists. Do what you can to strike down anything that divides Americans on any grounds, whether it is a religious ground or a racial ground or anything like that. Do what you can so that America's representatives abroad can say: "This is my country. It stands for freedom and equality, and it practices it as well." These are the things you can do; and, so I say to you: I am confident about the future - not only because I'm confident but because I know that the moral and spiritual ideals for which we stand are still the hope of the world. I have seen it in the eyes of thousands in 55 countries around the world. And, finally, then, what does all this have to do about an election? I ask you for your support on this basis only today. I ask you for your support for me and my colleague if you, regardless of party, feel that we are the team that America needs to extend freedom and to keep the peace. With regard to him, may I say this: I am proud to be on the ticket with him and, as a colleague and as a partner working with me I say there is no man in the world today who has done a better job stand in for peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. If you believe these things, I say: Will you go out in this State - and it's a close one; it's known as a battleground, as John can tell you better than anybody else, and we need it. We want to win it, and we can win it not only if you go out and vote, but work as hard as you can. Thank you very much, if you do that.
Senator Kennedy made it clear in his speech last night that he intends to continue his campaign of criticism of the alleged weaknesses of the United States while Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues are at the United Nations. This is his privilege as a candidate. I would suggest, however, that, particularly at this time, any American who points out to Mr. Khrushchev and the world those things that he thinks are wrong about the United States has an obligation to emphasize even more strongly those things that are right. It is unfortunate that Mr. Kennedy should have made himself a spokesman for this line of national self-disparagement at the very moment the United Nations Assembly members were voting 70 to 0 in favor of policies which the United States has steadfastly supported from the beginning, against the all-out opposition of the Communist bloc, in the Congo. The whole free world has interpreted this vote as a great victory for the United States and the ideals of peace and freedom for which we stand. But Senator Kennedy says that all we are doing is "outtalking" and "outshouting" Mr. Khrushchev. If Senator Kennedy intends to continue to address himself to Mr. Khrushchev and the Communist leaders, I say the American people will hold him accountable for his words. It is necessary, I believe, to point out some of the consequences of shooting from the hip and distorting the facts about America and American strength, military and economic. There is an example in today's papers of what I have in mind. The Chinese Communist newspaper, "The People's Daily," seizes on a statement by Senator Kennedy to charge that in capitalist countries millions of people go hungry in the midst of plenty. The newspaper refers for proof to a statement by Senator Kennedy that 17 million Americans go to bed hungry every night, a statement which the Senator has made a number of times during his campaign for the Presidency, and which apparently is based on an Agriculture Department report that one-tenth of the U.S. population lacked the proper diet - not that they were going hungry. Another example is Senator Kennedy's statement that if Alaska still belonged to the Soviet Union, it would already have a hydro-electric dam project in which there has recently been State interest. Another is his recent campaign statement that Mr. Khrushchev could well be tempted to make the most of "how much faster your economy is growing than ours." I find it difficult to understand why, in the present world situation, anyone would make statements about America that are so unfounded, but the Senator last night gave us another clue as to why it happens: We need a President in the sixties, he said, who "acts first and acts fast." I suggest that on the strength of the Senator's own statements we can conclude that what America needs in the sixties is a President who thinks first and acts wisely.
QUESTION. (Clark of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat.) Mr. Vice President, as you know, sir, we suddenly have a Senate race in Missouri. I don't know whether you have had an opportunity to look into it, but I'm wondering if you have any observations on the candidates or the type of candidates that you would like to see or the chances you believe the Republican Party has to capture a Senate seat in Missouri? The VICE PRESIDENT. I have heard about this race. I heard about it for the first time when I was in Missouri - St. Louis - a few days ago. The party leaders in Missouri on the Republican side, as I understand it - and I just checked today on arriving in Springfield - have not made a decision yet with regard to what candidate to back. Under those circumstances, as I have informed them, when they asked me for my advice, it would be inappropriate for me to take a position between those who are being considered for candidates because, obviously, I intend to support enthusiastically whatever man the party leaders generally agree on unanimously - and I trust it will be unanimously - agree should he selected. As far as the chances of a Republican getting the seat in Missouri. I would say that if we can get a good strong candidate we should make a strong race for the Senate in Missouri. I say that because we have a situation here where, due to the untimely passing of Tom Hennings, we do not have an incumbent, and had Tom Hennings, of course, been a candidate we would not have had any reasonable chance, in my opinion, because he was an incumbent with great popularity in the State. With no incumbent in the race, with the Republican Party obviously on the upswing in Missouri, I believe that a good Republican candidate will mean that we will have a good chance to pick up the Senate seat here, and I intend to give it all the support I can when our party makes the decision. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in clarification of the statement you have made for tonight, do you believe that foreign policy is a proper subject for discussion in this campaign? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes, I certainly do. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I wonder if you could clarify this line in your speech, in the excerpts Mr. Klein has given us: "If Senator Kennedy intends to continue to address himself to Mr. Khrushchev and the Communist leaders, I say the American people will hold him accountable for his words." The only speech I can recollect that he has done this in was the speech in Baltimore Friday night, in which he said to Mr. Khrushchev, "Don't try and divide us." Is that the speech you are referring to? The VICE PRESIDENT. That one and the one he made last night in Washington, in which he followed the same line. QUESTION. Did you personally, sir, find these words objectionable? The VICE PRESIDENT. No, not at all. I think he has a perfect right to address himself to Mr. Khrushchev, just as I have, but I disagree with what he is saying to him. I certainly disagree with him, as I indicate very strongly in my speech tonight. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I represent the Southwest Missouri State Standard and as a representative of about 3,000 students, I would like to know what you would like to say to them. The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I would say to them what I have already implied in talking to our friend from California: That I trust they will be as active in this campaign as possible - I would hope on our side; but, in any event, in it on either side, and I have been tremendously encouraged by the enthusiasm of our younger voters, both high school and college age in this campaign. It's much greater than in either 1952 or 1956, and I think this is a good sign for the United States. I would say, finally, this: That for those who want to choose public service as a career, that I would recommend it, that I think there is a lot of room in both parties for good, strong new leadership, and I would hope that they would consider, that as many students as possible would consider, both elective office as well as appointive office as a career. QUESTION. (Milt Bowers, of Springfield's preferred radio and TV station, KTTS.) Mr. Vice President, the Associated Press quoted you on Monday of this week as saying: "We can achieve without war the goal of freedom for the captive peoples behind the Iron Curtain." How do you propose to go about this? The VICE PRESIDENT. I propose to go about that as I indicated earlier this week in answer to the same question by a program in which we recognize that the moral force of ideas must never be underestimated, in which at the diplomatic table, in every conference in which we participate, in our information programs, in the statements we make, our national leaders, we constantly make clear our opposition toward accepting Mr. Khrushchev's ultimatum, in effect, that there shall be a Communist world in which there can be no change and a free world which must continue to change until it realizes its ultimate destination of becoming Communist. I know that there are those who believe that this is a very unrealistic attitude. I disagree. My study of history proves to me that where the hope of freedom remains in the hearts of people, and where it is kept alive by people outside of the area which is enslaved, eventually those hopes will be realized and I feel that the United States must continue to support, in every way that we possibly can, short of war the aspirations of people toward independence through peaceful change. Mr. Lawrence? QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I wonder if you could clarify your suggestion that the Democrats discard criticizing the administration for what they consider military weaknesses, economic weaknesses, and so forth, so long as Mr. Khrushchev remains in this country. Would it be your feeling that they would be free again to criticize when he leaves; and if this is true, does this not give him some unusual powers to control debate in an American election? The VICE PRESIDENT. I can only suggest they cannot, just as I have indicated on several occasions, of course, call a moratorium on the campaign while Mr. Khrushchev is here. I suggest, however, that when they do criticize that they at the same time should emphasize the strengths of America. Their emphasis has been primarily, and sometimes almost exclusively, on the weaknesses which they have been pointing up, and I think, for example, when they point up those things that they think are wrong militarily or economically they should remind Mr. Khrushchev that they believe what certainly I think is the fact - and I think certainly the facts bear this out - that the United States is, first, militarily stronger than the Soviet Union, that our economy is also stronger, and I think, too, that they should indicate that they do not believe that our prestige has fallen to an alltime low. I think the latter point being constantly reiterated at this time is most unfortunate. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, in the speeches at Fort Wayne and Louisville today you alluded to the fact that Senator Kennedy had in May suggested an expression of regrets from the President might have saved the summit conference. You said that to offer such a concession without a concession in return was working toward the cause of surrender. At Louisville you said it was the road to surrender or even to war. Do you mean to imply and indicate or infer that Mr. Kennedy is espousing a surrender policy toward the Soviet Union? The VICE PRESIDENT. Absolutely not. Mr. Kennedy didn't know what he was espousing. That was the trouble. I've indicated time and again that Mr. Kennedy is a man that is just as strong against communism as I am, and as most Americans are, but I indicated that in this view, because of perhaps lack of understanding and experience he was naive in making a suggestion that I think would have led to exactly the thing that he would have been just as strongly against as I am. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, if you become President, what course would you pursue in our relationship with Cuba? The VICE PRESIDENT. What course would I pursue in what? QUESTION. Your relation with Cuba, the United States' relationship with Cuba. The VICE PRESIDENT. If I become President, what relationship would I pursue in our relations with Cuba? I would pursue the line that we are presently pursuing. I realize that line is subject to criticism, because we have a very difficult situation; but to those who do criticize what we are doing my answer, of course, is: What is the alternative? There are those who say, "Why don't we send Marines to Cuba?" We could do it and we could give it to Mr. Castro in 24 hours, but getting rid of Castro in Cuba would not get rid of Castroism in Cuba or in Latin America and it would set in motion, in my opinion, a chain reaction of opposition to the United States through the other Latin American countries, which could be very, very detrimental to our foreign policy. That's why I think the United States, with its great power, has to continue to treat Cuba, as it has, with consideration, always patient, working with our other friends in Latin America, to be sure that they will support our position toward Castro and toward his close association with communism in Cuba. I would add one other thing: I think that Mr. Castro's very close identification with Mr. Khrushchev at the U.N. will not help him in Cuba. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, to date, most of your speeches and general campaign strategy have been aimed toward foreign policy and international relations. Now, every candidate realizes that they must build toward a peak just before election day in the campaign. With this in mind, is it possible you will become more explicit on domestic issues as the campaign draws to a close? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. During the course of the campaign, through major pronouncements, we obviously will present programs in various fields, both foreign policy and domestic. I have a major farm speech, for example, a second one, on Friday and I have a major statement on education which will be released for Monday papers this week. That pace, of course, will pick up as the campaign goes along. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, you mentioned that there would be a growing resentment against America if we interfered in the Castro situation. Do you believe that there is already a growing resentment against America in other parts of the world; and, if you do, do you have any plans to counteract it after you become President? The VICE PRESIDENT. The role of a country as strong as the United States in our relations with countries that are less strong to the south and, for that matter, other countries as well, is never a very easy one. There is resentment against the so-called colossus of the north, resentment which we could understand if we were in the same position, I am sure. Now, as far as our program toward Cuba is concerned though I would say that, from what I have learned, from talking to some Latin American leaders and from the reports I have read from our diplomats who have talked to Latin American leaders in other countries, they applaud what the United States has been doing toward Castro, by the strength that we have shown, the fact that we have not thrown our weight around in a way that many would have thought would have been unreasonable. They feel we were correct, I think, the majority of them, in acting as we did with regard to the sugar, the taking away of special consideration that we had with regard to sugar. They thought that was justified in view of the Cuban Government's expropriation of much of our property, but I think our present course in Cuba has not lost us friends in Latin America. If anything, it has gained us friends. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, among Senator Kennedy's statements which you criticize is the statement that Mr. Khrushchev could well be tempted to make the most of "how much faster your economy is growing than ours." Is it your position, sir, that Mr. Khrushchev hasn't been making capital out of this already and wouldn't he have done so if Senator Kennedy hadn't mentioned it? The VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. Khrushchev has certainly told me that his economy was growing faster than ours; but, on the other hand, after his visit to the United States, I don't think Mr. Khrushchev is quite as confident of that as he thought. Might I also suggest that, as far as this comparative rate of growth is concerned, I intend to discuss that tomorrow in my speech at Rockford. I will develop it further, but I will touch upon it here only to this extent - by saying that when we consider the percentages of growth that is no indication of when and how Mr. Khrushchev or any other country will catch us because, as far as the absolute gap is concerned - and I will develop this further tomorrow - the absolute gap will continue to grow in our favor and not in theirs. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, some of us in the back of the room didn't get your complete answer to Mr. Potter's question. You said you thought that Mr. Kennedy didn't know what he was espousing, and what was - would you mind repeating the rest of your answer, sir? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, as I recall Mr. Potter's question, it was: Was I indicating that Mr. Kennedy favored surrender to the Soviet Union, that he was espousing a policy of surrender when he suggested that President Eisenhower should have expressed regrets to Mr. Khrushchev? And my answer was: Absolutely not; that I had said that Mr. Kennedy really didn't know, in my opinion, what he was saying and the implications of what he was suggesting, and I suggested that the reason he, therefore, had made that statement was that he had a lack of understanding of what it would lead to. I went on and further said that Mr. Kennedy was just as strong against communism as I was; he would oppose surrender just as strongly as I would. The question is the particular procedure that he recommended here, the advisability of it. In my opinion, it was a procedure that if followed, would have ended up in a result that he would have opposed as much as I do. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, former Representative Dewey Short said today he would consider making the race if he had your support. If nominated, would he have your support? The VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. Short QUESTION. Will you repeat the question, Mr. Vice President? The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. I'll repeat it. He said that former Representative Dewey Short said today he would consider making the race in Missouri if he had my support, and the question was: If he were nominated, would he have my support? And the answer is: The nominee of the party will certainly have my support. If Mr. Short is nominated, I will support him enthusiastically. He's a very good candidate, as are the others that are being considered. [Laughter.] QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, now that the crisis in the Congo has subsided somewhat, what course do you think that the American foreign policy should take as far as the African situation is concerned? The VICE PRESIDENT. The question, as I understand, is: Now that the crisis in the Congo has subsided somewhat, what course should American foreign policy take with regard to the Congo and particularly Africa in general? That is a subject that I intend to develop later in more detail in the course of major speeches, but I will say at this point that I believe, with regard to the newly developing countries that are acquiring independence, that the formula that was developed here with regard to the Congo is one that may possibly have to be further refined so that it can go into action when needed in other countries. Here the United Nations by its action came into a situation in which there was chaos in the country and in which, if the United Nations had not moved in with strength, the only other power in the area, which was held by the Communists, would have taken over. They always come in where chaos exists. So, I believe this pattern having been established in the Congo must also be continued in other areas as well. Now, beyond that, may I say, looking at what the United States does, apart from the United Nations, which, of course, we should support, I have supported for some time - and I still support - a program of greatly expanded exchange and technical assistance for Latin America - Latin America, I should say, but particularly for Africa and the newly developing countries; and I have espoused these programs because I recognize that all of the developmental money that we put into these countries will go for nothing unless they can have the trained technicians both in government and on the productive side which can make use of it effectively. It just doesn't make sense to turn these countries loose, to provide money for them, without also giving them the opportunity to develop the trained people who can use the funds an also can handle the independence, and on these scores the United States must assume a unilateral responsibility as well as supporting multilateral action through the United Nations. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, Monday, Governor Rockefeller said he was holding off action on the medical care program because of the means test and the fact that he thought the State would have difficulty financing it. Do you feel this is going to be modified in the coming session of the Congress or would you favor eliminating that, the means test, or, as he wants to do, put it under the social security system? The VICE PRESIDENT. Governor Rockefeller's position on the medical care, as we both indicated prior to the convention, has differed from the position that I have taken. He favors financing the medical care out of Social Security and I favor the Federal-State program, which was contained in the Javits bill which, as you recall, was defeated in the Senate. My view is that the bill passed by the last Congress was certainly a great improvement over what we have. It was a step in the right direction. However, I believe that this bill is a most inadequate answer to the whole problem and, in my opinion, the next Congress, as early as possible, should try to consider again a program which will deal with the problem. I happen to believe that there should be - and I will continue to support - a program which will be Federal-State in character and which is not compulsory, such as the social security program would be, from the standpoint of its financing. But that would be my comment with regard to the general situation. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, do you think the American people are mature enough to weigh the merits of a foreign policy debate, the Democratic case against your own case, despite whether Mr. Khrushchev is in the country or not, or is there some other reason for a moratorium? The VICE PRESIDENT. There's no reason at all for a moratorium, in my opinion. I have indicated that the presidential campaign must go forward, with this one personal restriction which I placed on myself. I don't intend to comment on what Mr. Khrushchev, himself, says because that is the President's prerogative. I believe the American people are mature enough to consider foreign policy both while Mr. Khrushchev is here and while he is out of the country. I would only suggest that it is the responsibility of candidates, particularly while he is here, at a time when they are pointing up the weaknesses of America, to emphasize our strength, and I have been emphasizing our strengths. I would hope Senator Kennedy would emphasize them more than he has been emphasizing them. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, the other day Castro's brother hinted that they might want to reclaim the big U.S. Naval Base--- The VICE PRESIDENT. Guantanamo. Yes. QUESTION. In that case, what course do you think the United States should follow and what course do you think they might follow? The VICE PRESIDENT. What course should the United States follow in the event that Castro's brother's threat of taking over Guantanamo is carried through? My answer to that is that I think it is very unwise for a person who is serving in my position to indicate in advance what might happen in the event that certain distasteful actions take place. The net result of that, if I were to answer that question, as to what we planned to do, might be to trigger the very thing we don't want. So, consequently, I would only say this: We trust that this doesn't happen, and I believe that our plans as to what we should do should be announced then and decided. They should not be discussed publicly. QUESTION. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a moment, Mr. Vice President. Here in the Ozarks we would like to know, I think, the residents here, before we conclude this press conference: How's the old knee? How's it coming along? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I think mine is the only knee in captivity that hasn't been blamed on football. I would like to be able to blame it on football, but I got it in a much more rugged contest - running for the Presidency. But it's in good shape - good shape.
I want to thank all of those who have helped to make this meeting a success - the great bands that are here - I just wish that I could mention them all; I see them on the right, on the left and in front of me - The Nixon Voices that I understand we will hear again later in the evening, all of those hundreds of people who worked on this program, and particularly the thousands in this audience who have come so far, so many of you, and some of you at great trouble to be here. Let me tell you again how much we appreciate what you've done; and, too, may I also say that this ends a very great day of campaigning for Pat and for me. It began this morning in Fort Wayne, Ind., after we had flown there from Michigan. We had in Fort Wayne, in the center of the city what they said was the largest crowd they had ever had in that place in that city in history. And then we went to Louisville. They said again this was the largest crowd they had ever had in Louisville, Ky., on the streets and listening there in front of the statue of Thomas Jefferson. And then we come here tonight, and they say again that this is the largest crowd that we've had here in many, many years, if not the largest crowd in history. What does all this mean? I'll tell you what it means. It doesn't mean anything personal as far as I'm concerned, but it does mean something about America. It means that the American people, all of them, Republicans and Democrats and independents, are interested in their Government. You want to hear what those who are running for public office have to say, and you're willing to go to a lot of trouble to come to a meeting like this and to sit and listen to the case that a candidate for the Presidency presents for you. And this is a good sign, and for those who say that America as lost its interest in our Government, that we are thinking only of our own selfish concerns, I can tell you that I've been tremendously encouraged by what I have seen not only here, by what I have seen today, but by what I have seen in every State that we've visited so far in this campaign. You know what I find? No matter where we go - north, east, west or south, whether in Hawaii, in the far, Far West, or out in Maine, in what they call Down East, or whether in New Jersey or Pennsylvania in the East, or down in Alabama and Georgia and Texas and Virginia in the South, whether in Missouri or California or Oregon or Washington in the West - I find great crowds and I find that, as far as these people are concerned, they are interested in the same great issues. You know, we often hear the things that are different about Americans. We have a lot of different habits. Down here you like turnip greens, and maybe we don't in California, although I learned to like them when I went to school down in North Carolina. Other people have differences in habits, in food and dress, and sometimes we have differences in accents, and we hear the northerners don't agree with the southerners and the easterners with the westerners, and the people in labor don't agree with those in management and the people on the farm don't agree with those in the city, and so on down the line. Let me tell you this: We can be thankful tonight the things Americans do agree upon, the things we do believe in are far greater and far stronger than those things that divide Americans in this country. And what I say to you tonight is that the great issue of this campaign, the one that stands out wherever you go - east, west, north or south - in whatever kind of an audience it is, is the same, and it is this: Which of the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency can furnish the leadership for America and the free world that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? I say this is the great issue. This does not mean that people are not concerned as they well should be, about other things. They want a government in which they can have a good job and a good income. They want a government in which they can have and be able to earn security for their old age, and good medical care. They want a government in which they can have better schools for their children. All these things they want. But, you know, my friends, we can have all these things, the best jobs in the world, the best medical care and the best schools, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. So, the first responsibility of a President of the United States, I say, is to provide the leadership that will keep America at peace and will extend freedom throughout the world. And I say tonight that the American people will be grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for many things. They will be grateful because of his leadership that enabled this country to progress economically as it never had before in an 8-year period. They will be grateful because he restored dignity and integrity to the conduct of government in Washington, D.C., in the highest office of this land. But they will be most grateful because President Eisenhower, through his leadership, got the United States out of one war, kept us out of other wars and has provided peace without surrender for America and the free world today. But now the question comes: What about the future? How do we keep the peace? flow do we extend freedom? How do we avoid surrender? I would like to talk to that subject for a few moments tonight so that you can know where I, one of the candidates for the Presidency, stand on this issue. The first thing we have to do is this: We must remember that in developing a policy that will keep the peace it must be geared to deal with those who threaten the peace. And who are they? Not Americans. Not the British. Not the French. Not any of our allies. Not any of the great countries of Asia or Africa, outside of the Communist bloc. The only threat to the peace of the world is the one presented by the international Communist movement, from Moscow, from Peking. Why do they threaten it? Because they are determined, as they have indicated, to conquer the world, by war if necessary, by other means, if possible, and they have told us this. So, therefore, we must make our policies accordingly. And, as Mr. Khrushchev is visiting the United States today as he is attending the United Nations' General Assembly, it is well for us to look at the meeting there and to look at him to see what kind of man we are dealing with and what kind of policy America must follow if we are to avoid war. So, first, because he is a man who understands power and respects it, because he is a man who will use power, if he can get away with it, to accomplish his ends, we must make sure that he never believes he is strong enough and that we are weak enough that he could start something without risking national suicide on his own part. And, so, the first necessity of leadership in these critical years ahead is that the United States must continue to be what she is today - the strongest nation in the world. And, my friends, we must continue to maintain that advantage that we presently have, and the next President must be prepared to ask the American people for whatever was necessary to maintain it because through that strength in our hands, we serve the cause of peace. We serve it because we will never use it in aggression. We will only use it to deter those who would threaten the peace or threaten the freedom of others. Now, what else do we need? Along with great power there goes the responsibility for great leadership, and particularly for wise diplomacy. Let me spell that out in a moment. By wise diplomacy again, it must be geared to the man and the men who are on the other side of the conference table, Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues. What do they respect? What do they understand? Well, first of all, they understand firmness. We must never make a concession to them without getting a concession in return. As President Eisenhower has said, the United States wants disarmament. We are willing to make all kinds of proposals for disarmament, but we are never going to disarm unless we are sure that the Soviet Union is also disarming at the same time through inspection, because if we did we would not be serving the cause of disarmament or of peace. We would be limiting our power at a time that the only one that threatens the peace of the world would be maintaining an advantage and gaining one that he did not previously have. And, so, this firmness is a necessary requirement of policy. What else does firmness mean? Let me give you an example. You remember the summit conference in Paris, the one Mr. Khrushchev broke up when President Eisenhower, you recall, had ordered the U-2 flights. Mr. Khrushchev said that was the reason he broke it up. We don't think that was the reason. We think there were others. But after President Eisenhower came home he was criticized on two counts and two extremes. There were some who said that the President wasn't tough enough with Mr. Khrushchev. They said, "After all, he had insulted the President of the United States, and why didn't the President of the United States go in and insult him, too?" And let me tell you why he didn't. First of all, when you're confident that you're right, when you know that you're strong, you keep your dignity and you don't get down to the level of one who engages in insults. And may the next President of the United States and every President always bear this in mind, bear it in mind for that reason, and bear it in mind also for another reason: That he must never engage in a war of words simply to satisfy his own ego, simply to answer insults that are personal in nature to satisfy his ego. He must never do that because he might heat up the international atmosphere to the point that a nuclear explosion could be set off. So, for these two reasons, the President was right in maintaining the fine dignity that he did in the face of those insults. But all the critics didn't think that. There were others who said, "It wasn't a case of the President not answering insult for insult." There were some who said, "The President should have taken a different line." They said, for example, that he should have tried to save this conference, that he might have expressed regrets, for example, for these flights and maybe that would have saved it. Let me tell you why he couldn't do that. First, because that shows a very naive attitude about Mr. Khrushchev and men like him. Expressing regrets to him for these flights would not have saved the conference. It would not have satisfied him. It would only have whetted his appetite and made him ask for more. This is always the case when you're dealing with a dictator and give him a concession without getting a concession in return. But, beyond that, there is another reason. No President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, must ever feel it necessary to express regrets or apologize for defending the United States of America against surprise attack. And, so, the policy diplomatically, if we are to keep the peace and extend freedom, must he firm, but it must be nonbelligerent. It must stand firmly for the rights of our friends and of those who want to be free on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Now, what should the conduct of our candidates be at the present time with Mr. Khrushchev in the United States? I have addressed myself to this subject on several occasions. I want to do so again tonight. First of all, let me say that, as far as our country is concerned, in a political campaign it is the responsibility of those who think there are things wrong with our country, militarily, economically or otherwise to criticize them, and that responsibility goes forward whether Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else is in this country visiting at a particular time. You don't call off a campaign because of their visits. But let me say this: There is also a responsibility at a time like this - and at all times, for that matter - to be sure that the criticisms are based on fact and not on distortion; and also I say that when Mr. Khrushchev is in the United States, if we are going to criticize the things that are wrong about the United States, let's also emphasize the other things that are right about this country while he is here. There are things wrong, of course. There are some things wrong about the United States; but, over all, what is it? Just the best country in the world. Let's never forget that. Our military posture is not perfect. There are things that should be done to strengthen it, but what is our military strength? We're just the strongest nation in the world, and stronger than the Soviet Union. Let's not forget that. Mr. Kennedy, speaking just a few days ago, made the point that Mr. Khrushchev might be tempted while he was here to make the most out of the fact that his economy, Mr. Khrushchev's, was growing - and I quote - "much faster than ours." Well, just let me say this: I have seen his economy and I have seen ours, and I believe that as far as our economy is concerned, it can and must grow just as fast as it can, not only because we're in a race with them, but because that is in the great American tradition. But let me say this: That those who say that the Soviet economy is going to catch us, as Mr. Khrushchev says, and is going to pass us, just don't know what they're talking about, because they are not only not going to catch us in 7 years, as Mr. Khrushchev has claimed; they are not going to catch us in 70. And may I say also, in that connection, that when we consider the weaknesses in our economy, let us not forget that America is the envy of and the admiration of the whole world as the richest, most productive nation in the world - and let's emphasize that good point about the economy while we're talking about the bad points. Then, of course, we hear of other things. We hear from our political critics to the effect that the United States is losing its friends around the world, that our prestige is at an alltime low, in spite of all the things that we've done, the money we've spent, the wars we've fought - World War I, World War II, and Korea - without getting a thing in return, that the U.S. prestige, nevertheless, is at an alltime low. This is the charge that has been made. It was made in 1956 by Mr. Stevenson. It is made again by our political critics today. Well, let me say this: As far as prestige is concerned, I think we had a pretty good example just a couple of days ago in the United Nations. I noted in the papers just this past week you've had a football game in which the University of Missouri upset Southern Methodist by a score of 20 to 0. Now, that's a pretty good score in a football game. There was another kind of a game, a competition in the United Nations, and in the United Nations there was a vote on the Congo and the United States was on one side and the Soviet Union was on the other side. And you know how it came out? It wasn't just 20 to 0. It was 70 to 0, and that shows the U.S. prestige is pretty good. What about the other things we hear that are wrong about the United States? Here's one: "17 million Americans go to bed hungry every night," Mr. Kennedy said: "17 million Americans go to bed hungry every night" - and what happens? The Chinese Communist newspaper, the People's Daily, picked it up and they said, "This means in capitalistic countries like the United States millions of people go hungry in the midst of plenty." Now, what are the facts? The facts are, of course, the truth is that this country is the best clothed, the best housed, and we are the best fed people in the world - and go some place and see and come back to the United States and then be thankful that you live in this country if you don't believe it. Of course, the Department of Agriculture apparently, if this statement was based on it, made a report to the effect that one-tenth of the U.S. population didn't have a proper diet - not that they were going hungry. I remember, incidentally, what President Eisenhower said when the statement by Senator Kennedy - that 17 million Americans went to bed hungry every night - was brought to his attention. He said, "I go to bed hungry every night, but," he said, "the reason is the doctor has me on a diet."  And then we have another example of this shooting from the hip. Senator Kennedy, speaking in Alaska the other day, said that if Alaska still belonged to the Soviet Union it would already have a great hydroelectric dam project, which the people up there want. He might have added that if Alaska still belonged to the Soviet Union they might have the dam and they might, not, but they sure wouldn't have their freedom - and that's a lot more important. My friends, I think you, with me, will agree it's difficult to understand these statements in the light of the present world situation - and, you know, I think I found a clue to why they have been made, this statement about Alaska still belonging to the Soviet Union, this statement about expressing regrets, another one off the cuff, shooting from the hip, this one about 17 million Americans going to bed hungry every night. You know what it means? Well, Senator Kennedy apparently said yesterday, "We need a President in the sixties," he said, "who acts first and acts fast." Now, let me analyze that for you in a moment. Yes, we do need to act first and act fast, sometimes, but I would suggest, on, the strength of these statements that I have just recited to you tonight, that what America needs in the sixties is a President who thinks first and then acts wisely for America and the world, because it is essential in the world in which we live that the man who is President of this country think first, act wisely, because the greatest wisdom is going to be needed to keep the peace without surrender, the difficult line between surrender on the one side and belligerence on the other. And now there is a last point I would make, and it is the most important one of all. "What could be more important," you might ask, "than military strength and diplomatic firmness?" And I will tell you what it is. When I visited Poland just a year ago with my wife on a Sunday afternoon, we had the most memorable experience of our lives - yes, even more memorable than this wonderful reception we've had here in Springfield and in the other cities in the United States. Let me tell you about it. We came in on a Sunday afternoon with no notice from the Government as to when we were arriving or where we would be driving because Mr. Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before and they didn't want to have a comparison between our reception from the people of Poland behind the Iron Curtain and his reception. So, as we drove through the city, we expected some people, but you know, in a dictatorial country the word gets around by word of mouth and, as we drove into the suburbs, the crowds began to collect, and they were crowds like this one, cheering, but they were more than that. They were throwing flowers, hundreds of bouquets of flowers, into our car as we passed by, and when the car got into the middle of town they jammed around it and stopped the caravan eight different times, stopped it and they were shouting, and I looked into their faces and I saw that many of them were crying with tears of joy coming down their cheeks and they were shouting at the tops of their voices. You know what they were shouting? "Niech Zyje, America." "Long live America." Why did they say it? Not because we are strong militarily, because Mr. Khrushchev represented a strong military country, and they hadn't shouted and cried and cheered like that for him; not because we were strong and rich economically, because he claimed to represent that kind of country, and they hadn't done that for him. No. Because to the people of Poland, and to the people of all the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain, the United States, we can be thankful, stands for something more than just military strength and economic might and gross atheistic materialism. We stand for moral and spiritual strength, for the great ideals that have always been the wonder of the world. What are those ideals? You know what they are. A faith in God; a recognition of the equal dignity of every man, woman, and child in this earth, regardless of his background; a recognition of the right of all people to be independent and to be free. These rights are rights that come not from men and, therefore, cannot be taken away by men. They come from God. These are the things that the United States has stood for for a hundred and eighty-five years, and it is this moral and spiritual strength that will he decisive in this struggle for peace and freedom. What can you do about it? This strength can't come from a President in Washington. Oh, he can help by a speech, but what he says, maybe by his own conduct, but it must come from the hearts and the minds and the souls of a people. It must come from the church. It must come from your schools. It must come from your home. And I say to this great audience in Missouri here tonight: Do your best for America. Do your best in strengthening the moral and spiritual fiber, the love of country the great ideals that make America strong today. Do this so that America, her President, can lead a strong nation to peace and to freedom with all the world. These are the things that I ask you. And, finally, tonight, I come to the contest for the Presidency. I have not yet told you what I think you should do. I want to say to you tonight: Consider what I have said. Consider it not as Republicans or as Democrats but as Americans - and if you believe that the leadership that I can provide with my colleague is the leadership that America needs, then I ask for your support. May I say a word about my colleague. I would not be so presumptuous to talk of my qualifications, but as far as he is concerned, he will be a partner with me, working to strengthen the instruments of peace - and, my friends, I don't believe any man in the world today has had more experience and has done a finer job defending the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge as our representative in the United Nations. So, that is our case. If you believe that this team of ours is the leadership America needs, then I say go out and work as you never worked before. Missouri is always a close State, and it's going to take a lot of work to win it, but it can be won if you work not just for a party and not just for a man, but recognize that you are working for leadership that is best for America and for the cause of peace and freedom for the whole world. Thank you very much.
 Comments by my opponent, as well as his spokesmen, on economic conditions seem to be part and parcel of their strategy of talking down America's strengths in every field. Listening to them, one would never know that ours is a $500 billion economy, with more than 68 million Americans at work, earning more, spending more, saving more, investing more, building more than ever before in history. Now, of course, we have a few areas in our country which have not shared in the general good times, and I have discussed a sensible program to attack that problem where it exists. But contrary to the impression left by my opponent's remarks at times, I do not find America one vast depressed area. Neither would he, if he looked for national strengths rather than being obsessed with finding weaknesses. Judging from my opponent's remarks, one would be further forced to conclude that the American economy doesn't stack up very well against that of the Soviet. He cites the well-known fact that the Soviet Union is showing a faster growth rate than we are but he fails to tell the rest of the story. Now this comparison we should weigh very carefully, but it should hardly surprise us nor should it be taken as an adequate basis for comparing the two economies. The Soviets are in an early stage of industrial development and percentage gains are therefore easy to attain - just as, by adding 1 bean to 10 beans, a 10-percent gain can be recorded, while adding 1 bean to 20 yields a gain of only 5 percent. The fact is that our economy during the years 1880-1920, when it was in a similar stage of development to that of the Soviet economy, showed similar growth rates. The American economy is producing now at more than twice the rate of the Soviet. We are ahead and, if we accent the real forces making for growth, we can stay well ahead. On this subject of economic growth Senator Kennedy revealed a rather remarkable do-it-with-mirrors philosophy in Detroit the other day. He told his audience that with a higher annual average growth rate than that which prevailed over the last 8 years, every working man would have received $7,000 more than he did receive. Since this is a pure mathematical exercise, he might as well have produced a result of $10,000 or $15,000. If I wanted to engage in such exercises, I could show that, had the growth rate of average family income in real terms during the Truman administration continued through the Eisenhower administration, the average American family would have had at least $3,000 less than it did, since the Truman improvement was only 2 percent while the Eisenhower improvement was 15 percent in real terms. Everyone would agree, of course, on the desirability of such a high growth rate as the Senator implies in his calculation, but there is nothing in the record of his party to show they can produce it. Consider their credentials: In charge of the Government for almost 7 years before war broke out in Europe, their record shows that unemployment in the United States stood at just under 9.5 million in 1939. They did not succeed in solving the unemployment problem until the coming of World War II. From 1946 to 1953, while still in charge, they gave the Nation 7 years of inflation. The cost of living went up almost 40 percent in those years, a bad record even adjusting for the impact of the Korean war. During the last 7 Truman years, real income for the average family increased 2 percent, compared to 15 percent in the first 7 Eisenhower years. Expedient and ill-considered action in labor-management disputes - whether the proposal to draft workers into the Army in 1946 or the seizure of the Nation's steel mills in 1952 - reveals an alarming lack of regard for the way a free economy operates. These opposition economic practitioners cannot come to the American people and ask to be put in charge of the Nation's economic policy on their record. Spurring economic growth is too vital a matter for America to be left to those with such a record. It will require leaders whose policy is to accent the traditional strengths of our free economy - initiative and investment, productivity, and efficiency - not leaders who merely emphasize expanding Government activity all along the line together with artificially easy credit. It will mean stressing what 180 million Americans can do, not what Government can do for them. It will require facing the blunt fact that our national leadership cannot prepare us for competition with the Communists by trying to make everything as easy as possible for everyone. It will require playing up the key matter of personal incentives, not playing them down. It means tax reforms to spur savings and investment as the way to create jobs and growth, instead of punitive measures designed to take away more of our incomes and redistribute them through the Federal Treasury. It means that Government undertakes to do not the most things or the least things, but the right things. It means meeting the economic problems of the 1960's, not with retreads of depression - born ideas of the 1930's that are out of date and out of touch; and that means clearing away the Democratic confusion that policies for recovery can serve as policies for growth. Only with such accents and such policies, can we achieve a strongly growing, stable economy, capable of meeting our growing needs at home and abroad in this time of testing for our people and for our Nation.
There is much that I would like to say in the time that is allotted, and there are many issues that I would like to discuss, but I think all of them pale into really insignificance, at least on this particular day in view of the fact that this is such a proud day for the United States and the American people, and I say a proud day because again we have seen America at its best represented by President Eisenhower at the United Nations in New York. And for those who feared that Mr. Khrushchev's coming to the United Nations might serve to rattle us or to divide us or to show us off to disadvantage, I can only say that when Mr. Khrushchev's speech is compared with President Eisenhower's after he makes it, the world will know the man who is sincere and the man who is not sincere in working for the great ends of peace and freedom for all the people of the world. And President Eisenhower, I say tonight, certainly deserves the thanks of the American people for not only what he has done again at the United Nations, but for the record he has made. I am proud of that record. I am part of it. I helped to make it. In speaking of it, may I say that in thinking of it certainly there are these things we will always remember: The American people will be thankful that President Eisenhower restored dignity and integrity and honesty to the conduct of Government in the highest office of this land. They will be thankful, in addition, that under his leadership America has known the greatest prosperity and the greatest progress of any 8-year period in our Nation's history. And they are also going to be thankful - and for this most of all, I am sure - for the fact that under his leadership we ended one war, we kept the United States out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today for the United States and the friends of peace throughout the world. In presenting our case to you tonight, I say to you that our foremost pledge is that we will continue policies that will keep the peace; we will strengthen the peace, and we will strengthen those policies that will not only hold the line for freedom, but we will extend freedom throughout the world. For these things we stand and these things we believe, we offer to the American people the qualifications, the program that they will and should support. Let me discuss it in just a few minutes. First of all, we intend to keep this country as she is today, the strongest nation militarily in the world and the American people, we know, will be willing to pay what is necessary to see that we never fall behind in this area. This is the first element in keeping the peace, and the first element because, when we are dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev and the Communist leaders generally, we must never forget that they have different aims in the world than we do. We do not want to conquer the world. We do not want to use our military power against anybody else. We only want to defend our own freedom and the freedom of others.  But his aims are different. He says that he wants to conquer the world. He says that he would prefer to accomplish that objective without war - and we hope that he continues to hold to this line; but, in any event, as long as he maintains the military strength he does, the United States must be sure that we are always ahead of him so that he will never be tempted by miscalculation or otherwise to launch a strike against us or any other free nation in the world. My friends, with this military strength must also go a firm and strong diplomatic policy, a diplomatic policy that will use this strength wisely, not use it in anger, but use it wisely and use it for the very purpose for which it was intended - to keep the peace - and not to use it as an instrument of war. In that respect, may I say again, as we think of the President's work on behalf of this country, particularly tonight, that we have an example of how strength should be used by a President of the United States in the President's conduct at the Paris Conference, which Mr. Khrushchev broke up. I have often referred to this - and I refer to it again - because it is an excellent lesson for whoever may be the leader of this country. The President was confronted with a dilemma. Mr. Khrushchev said he was breaking up this Conference because of the U-2 flights which the President and ordered for the purpose of protecting the United States against surprise attack and getting information which might protect us against that eventuality, and when he broke up the Conference there were those who criticized President Eisenhower on two grounds. They said, first, that the President should have answered Mr. Khrushchev in the way that Mr. Khrushchev attacked him. Why should he not have done this and why was the President right in doing what he did? There are two reasons: (1) When you're confident of your strength, as we are and (2) when you know you're right, as we do, and are standing for the right, you don't answer insult for insult. You keep the dignity of your office and the dignity of the people that you represent, as President Eisenhower did after that Conference. In addition to that, whoever is President of this country must always remember that he can never have the luxury of losing his temper. It isn't easy to hold your temper when you're talking to a man like Mr. Khrushchev. I know. I can assure you, however, that is the only conduct which is responsible. Firm? Yes. Stand for principle? Yes. But never engage in a war of words that might heat up the international atmosphere and run the risk of a nuclear explosion And, so, we see this side of the President's conduct, which I think most of us would support. There are other critics, however, who looked at it a little differently. They said it wasn't a question of the President not answering, but a question of him not doing more than he did to try to save the Conference. They thought that possibly he might have acceded to Mr. Khrushchev's request that he apologize or express regrets for those flights in order to save the Conference. I want to tell you why he couldn't do that. First of all, it would have shown a very naive lack of judgment with regard to the kind of man we are dealing with here because, you see, he is not and does not react like the leaders of the free world. He is a man who understands strength, who respects it, and when you make a concession to him, which he does not expect and which he does not deserve, it does not make him treat you better. All that he does is to treat you worse. What he does is to insist oil another concession and another one until he drives you into a corner. So, that would have been wrong on that score for the President to have acceded to his request, which was not justified. Then there was another reason why the President couldn't do that, why no President could do that. No President, Democrat or Republican, can consider apologizing or expressing regret for doing what is right for defending the United States of America against surprise attack. So, in this area of diplomacy, the United States, I say, has followed the proper course, and we must continue to follow the firm course, but without belligerency, that the President has laid down, and this also I pledge to you on this occasion. Now, there are those who say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, we agree that the record of this administration in the field of foreign policy, while it has some deficiencies, has been one that in results has ended in peace without surrender." But in the economic field there are those who say it is a different story. In this area they claim the other side has all the chips on their side of the table. They say, for example, that in the economic side they are the ones who advocate growth and progress for our economy and that under our leadership in the past 7½ years America has stood still. And, so, I want to answer that tonight, and I want to set the record straight, because, my friends, they are wrong here just as the critics of the President in the field of foreign policy were wrong. They are wrong because, as far as their economic philosophy is concerned and as far as the way they see economic conditions in this field are concerned, they're engaging again in the strategy of talking down America's strength in every field apparently that they can think of. Listening to them, those who criticize our economy, you wouldn't realize or you wouldn't dream of what the truth is - and the truth we should emphasize particularly while Mr. Khrushchev is here. The simple truth is that America is the strongest, most productive, richest country in the world today - and this we must repeat over and over again. The truth is that we have over a $500 billion economy, with more than 68 million Americans at work, more than ever in history, and they're earning more. They're spending more. They're saving more. They're investing more. They're building more than ever before in history. That isn't standing still. That's moving forward. Now, there are areas in our economy, and in parts of our country, that haven't shared in the general good times. One of those areas is in the particular parts of the farm belt and I'm going to discuss that in a speech tomorrow in South Dakota. But let me say this: Contrary to the impression that's been left by some of my opponent's remarks and by some of his colleagues, I want to say, as I travel about this country - north, east, west and south - I'm very happy to say I don't find America to be one vast depressed area, and neither would our opponents find it that way if they looked for our national strength rather than being apparently obsessed with finding weaknesses in America as they travel about the country. Some of you may ask the question: "What about the charge that the Soviet economy is growing faster than ours?" Well, I know about this charge. Mr. Khrushchev made that charge and also that threat to me, in effect. He said, "We're moving faster than you are, Mr. Vice President. We're going to pass you by and when we go by you we are going to say, 'Come along; follow us and do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind in this race between our two economies.'" Incidentally, one amusing sidelight to that: There was a story in Poland when I went there that one of those who signed the visitors' exhibition book at the American Exhibition in Moscow said, "Dear Mr. Khrushchev when you go by the United States, please let me off." Let's look at this charge that the Soviet economy is growing faster than ours. When an economy is, as theirs is, in an early stage of development, percentage gains are very easy to attain; but we find that our own economy, when we were in approximately that stage of development in 1880 to 1920, showed a similar rate of growth. The American economy today, however, is producing at more than twice the rate of the Soviet economy. And let's get this one thing straight, just as I told him in the Soviet Union: The American economy is ahead of his today, and if we continue to accent the real forces making for growth we can continue to stay ahead, and that's what we intend to do in the leadership of this America. But here again I've been talking about comparing our rate of growth with that of the Soviet Union. I've been talking about figures of a $500 billion gross national product. What about the average worker? What about the average family? What about the charge that my opponent made the other day in Detroit to the effect that - and, incidentally, he must have done this with mirrors - that with a higher annual average growth rate than that which we had in the Eisenhower administration every working man would have received 7,000 more dollars than he did receive. That's a pretty good claim - and if that's true, incidentally, believe me, we oughtn't to win because we would have a pretty poor record to shoot at and they would have an awfully good promise to point to - but that's all it is. It is a promise. They couldn't possibly fulfill it. May I say, in that connection, while they were saying every working man could have had $7,000, they might have said $10,000 or $15,000. It would have made just as much sense, and that is no sense at all. Let me put it another way: You know what the real facts are? Let's take family income. All of us have families here. Do you know as far as that family income is concerned in the 7 Truman years there was only an increase in family income, after you took out inflation, of 2 percent - 2 percent in the whole 7 years. You know how much it was in the 7 Eisenhower years? Fifteen percent. Now, that's a pretty good comparison, but let's go a bit further. If we wanted to engage in this numbers game, I could well say that if we had continued the Truman policies in effect, and with only our family income going up 2 percent over 7 years, every American family would have had $3,000 less with the Truman policies in effect than we had with the Eisenhower policies.  So, all I can say is this: With our policies, they have paid off. They have paid off not only as far as national growth is concerned, but they have paid off where it really counts - for the wage earner, for the family income in this country.  Now, let me suggest this: I know that our opponents say that with their growth rates that they're going to have, things are going to be different, but when we actually look at the facts and the records, what are their credentials? Well, the kind of policies they advocate, you see, aren't new in this economic field. They have all been tried before. They were tried first from 1932 up until about 1939, when the war spending began to come in, and after 7 years of that kind of policy there were still nine and a half million people unemployed in America and it took a war to reduce the unemployment.  They were tried again in peacetime during the Truman administration, the same kind of policies that they're advocating today. From 1946 to 1953, what did we get? We got only a 2-percent increase, as I pointed out, in what our average family had, but we also got a tremendous inflation of almost 40 percent.  So, I say again that, as we look here at these policies and as we look at the record, the American people know that they do not want to go back to the policies that they left in 1953. They want to go forward with our policies which will build even more income and a stronger America economically than we've ever had before in the country's history.  And, so, I want to say to you today how we plan, how we plan to see that our economy grows, how to plan to see to it that every American family continues to have increased income, real income, not the kind that is frittered away by inflation.  First of all, I think we have to recognize this: That our opponents, particularly when we look at their economic philosophy, come to the American people and they ask to be put in charge of the Nation's economic policy on their record.  And I say this spurring economic growth is too vital a matter for America to be left with those with such a record.  What do we need? We need the traditional strengths of our free economy. We need initiative and investment. We need productivity and efficiency, and we need not leaders who merely emphasize, as they do, expanding Government activity all along the line, together with artificially easy credit. That isn't the way to growth. That is the way to stagnation of an economy.  And I would say that what we need in this country if we're going to continue to grow is that we're going to have to stress not what Government can do for people so much as what a hundred and eighty million Americans can do for themselves if they're given a chance by their Government.  It means that we have to face up to the blunt fact that our national leadership can't prepare us for competition with the Communists by trying to make everything as easy as possible for everyone, by the Government trying to do that.  It means that we're going to have to play up the key matter of personal incentives rather than playing them down.  It means tax reforms to spur savings and investment. Why? Because that's the way to create jobs and growth. It means that, instead of punitive measures designed to take away more of our incomes and redistribute them through the Federal Treasury, it means that Government should undertake to do for people not the most things or the least things, but the right things for the American people. This is what it means, and I would suggest that it means that the economic problems of the sixties can be met with policies of the sixties and not with retreads of the depression - born ideas of the thirties, which are out of date and out of touch with the realities of today. It means clearing away the Democratic confusion that policies designed for recovery of an economy can serve as policies for growth. In essence, my friends it means this: They say that the way to growth, that the way to a better life for the American people, that the way to get progress in any field is to go running to Washington with the problem and increase what the Federal Government does. We say the Federal Government must play a part, but that that part is to supplement, not supplant what the individuals and the States can do. We say that the primary function of the Federal Government must be to stimulate and to encourage the creative activities and opportunities of a hundred and eighty million free Americans. This is the difference between our two parties. So, I say to you tonight that, whether it is in the foreign policy field or whether it is in the economic field, the record of our administration has been one that stands up very well, indeed, as opposed to the record of our predecessors. Looking to the future, I say the way to a bright, new future for the American people in which we don't just stand on a record, but build on it, is not through turning back - and that's what they would do to policies that were tried and found wanting during the Truman administration, but to go forward with policies that have been tried now and build on those for the future. This is what America will do. We never want to go back. We want to go forward, and that's where we want to take you in the campaign and in the next administration. And, so I say, in this field we welcome the competition of ideas. We welcome what our opponents have said as their challenge that we do not do well in the economic field, although grudgingly some of them may admit that on results we have done reasonably well in the foreign policy field. But let's go to one other point before I conclude, one that should not go unanswered and unaccounted for, as far as this particular discussion is concerned. We've heard a great deal about the fact that while we have peace today, it is an uneasy peace, and while we have peace today, that our policies have been ones that have been losing friends for the United States, that we lack prestige around the world, and our critics point to the fact that, for example, there were riots in Tokyo that made it impossible for President Eisenhower to go there, that there were riots in Caracas while my wife, Pat, and I were there. They point to the breakup of a conference in Paris over the U-2 incident. I want to tell you what my answer is to that. It is this: I say it is time for us to quit blaming ourselves and our friends for what the Communists do around the world, and they were responsible there in all three of these incidents. What about American prestige? Where does it stand? Well, I know something about it, I have been around the world. I've been to over 50 countries, and I can tell you we can be proud of where America stands, proud because the people of the world, the great majority of them, know that we are for peace. They know that we have no designs upon them, as do the Communists have designs upon them. They know that we have poured out billions of dollars to them only for the purpose of helping them to be economically strong so that they could resist any foreign domination. They know that the hearts of the American people have been exceedingly generous, not only to our friends, but those who have been enemies in war. All these things mean things, and they mean a great deal as you go about the world. Oh, I know there isn't any question but that there are enemies of the United States and opponents of the United States, and when a country is as rich and as strong as ours is we're going to have those who don't like us; but, my friends, let's recognize this: When our course is right, let's not constantly run down what the United States is doing. Let's stick on our course and stand for the right, as President Eisenhower did at the United Nations in his speech today. I would make just one other point with regard to prestige, and that is this: The best proof of it is on the score. That's what they pay off on - and, my friends, I would hasten to point out to you that, as far as the score is concerned, we had a pretty good accounting just the other day in the United Nations. There was a test vote about the Congo. The Soviet Union was on one side. The United States was on the other side. Here was a chance for all the nations that were for them as against us to line up and be counted. Well, you know the score was a pretty good one. It would be a great one in football. It was a greater one even as far as international affairs was concerned. They didn't get anything. The vote was 70 to 0 for the position of the United States, and that shows our prestige is high. That shows our prestige is high and I would also point out - and this is certainly something that it is proper for me to point out - that I am proud that running with me on our ticket, the man who will work as a partner with me in the cause of peace and freedom, is a man who in seven and a half years representing the United States at the United Nations never lost a contest in a major issue where the Soviet people were concerned. Henry Cabot Lodge deserves the support of the American people for that. My time is up. I want to thank you for your very generous applause, for your support, and I want to leave with you one final thought: In emphasizing our military strength and our economic strength, I think it is vital that we also recognize the tremendous importance of seeing that the moral and spiritual strength of America - that our moral and spiritual fiber - is kept strong in this country. Why is this important? Because all over the world today let us remember that it is not the strength of our arms, but the strength of our ideas that will count. My friends, I am proud tonight of the moral and spiritual positions that we have taken. I am proud of the fact that the United States stands for peace. And I say to you: Will you, as citizens, go back to your communities and remember that the moral and spiritual strength of the country cannot come from its leaders, but it comes from the people. It comes from the home. It comes from the church. It comes from the community. And it is this strength that will be decisive. As I stand here, I am confident of the future, confident because the America I have seen is not weak. The America I have seen is strong economically and spiritually and morally, and I'm confident of the future because the people of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain are on the side of right, as we are on the side of right. That is my case. If you agree with it, may I ask you to go out and work as you have never worked for a victory, not just for our party, but for America and for all that she stands for in the world tonight. Thank you, very much.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. I think somebody is requesting that if you would put down your signs, so that the people in the back could see. Will you just pull them down, please, and then we'll let you put them up again. And we do appreciate your bringing them, believe me. Of course, as I often say, I know you don't want to see me but you do want to see Pat, my wife; she's right over here. [Applause.] I want to tell you, first, how very much we have appreciated this wonderful welcome that we have received on our first visit to this city and to this part of the State of Missouri. I know that when we came here, and when this trip was planned, they said we'd get a pretty good crowd. I can only say that the crowd exceeds our expectations tremendously and we thank all of those who worked to plan this meeting; we thank the bands and others who have participated in it to make it such an exciting meeting; but, most of all, we thank you who have come from this city, from the surrounding counties, from across the way in Kansas, from all over the State of Missouri, to give us the opportunity to meet you and to talk to you about some of the issues facing America today. Before I discuss those issues, I would like to say a word about some of the people here on the platform with me. On this platform are our Republican candidates for Governor and State office in the State of Missouri, as well as our candidates for National office, including the man who introduced me, Ethan Campbell. And may I say I'm proud to be here with my fellow colleagues who are candidates, and I ask you to consider their qualifications as I ask you to consider mine, when you vote on November 8. And, may I say, too, I know that in this great audience today are people who are members of my party. I know, too, that there are people here who are members of the other party. I know, too, there are people who are independent voters - and that is as it should be. One of the things that's tremendously inspiring about traveling through the United States and speaking to great gatherings like this is that you realize that here are Americans in action at their best. They're out to hear what the candidates have to say. They may not agree with them, but they want to make a free choice and, my friends, having traveled around the world and been in countries where there's no choice at all, never forget that this is a priceless American heritage and use it on November 8, whether you vote for me or against me. [Applause.] Incidentally, after such a welcome as this, I can only say, in the light of an article that was written recently, that Pat and I are going to go away from this town saying "We like St. Joseph." [Applause.] And now, if I may ask you to consider with me for a moment I know that you're standing and some of you can't even hear, or perhaps see - but if you will consider with me for a few moments some of the things we ought to be thinking about as we select the next President and the next Vice President of this country. What should our attitude be in the first place? Well, first of all, it should not be based simply on saying "I'm going to vote for a man simply because he's a member of my party." It should be based on this attitude: What man can best serve the country? Now, why do I say that? You know the history of this country - and I see lots of students here who are studying history at the present time - will tell you that in the history of this country we have had some Presidents who have been Democrats, great Presidents, and some who have been Republicans. But the important thing is that the American people - Democrat or Republican - always put the country first, and that's what we must do and you must do in this campaign - what is best for the country. Now, second. The second point I would like to make is this. I have been part of the administration we presently have. I was elected with President Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956. I'm proud of the record of that administration and that, of course, is one of the things you must take into consideration: the record of an administration is something that you must evaluate among other things in determining the leadership you want for America. I'm proud of that record for a number of reasons. First, I think the American people will always be grateful to President Eisenhower because he brought decency and respect to the highest office in this land. I think also that the American people are going to be grateful to him because he brought leadership under which America has had the greatest progress - economically - that this country has ever enjoyed. But, above all, I would say that the American people will be eternally grateful to President Eisenhower and to his leadership because during his term of office he ended one war in which America was involved, he kept us out of other wars, and we have peace today without surrender [applause drowns out last few words]. Now, you know, sometimes a candidate for public office, when he has a good record like that, to run on, is tempted to say: Well, that's it, folks, I'm running on the record and that's all. But, my friends, that isn't all and that isn't enough. I don't care how good a record is, whether it's in a State, in a county, in a city or in the Nation, our people are people who are always looking forward, this is a go-ahead country, we want to move ahead, and however good things are today we want them better tomorrow - not so much for ourselves but for our children. I remember my Dad always used to say when the five of us were growing up, five boys in our family, he never used to talk about the good old days and he never used to be satisfied with the way things were at the present time, he'd say that in America we always must be looking for ways in which we can make this country better. America must move ahead, and that's why we're the greatest country in the world, because we've always been a people that have moved ahead, never satisfied with things as they are. And today I tell you, and I pledge to you, that as I look at this country of ours, that we can move ahead in many areas. I noted that as we flew down here today there was great territory, our farming country here, and I know that we Americans can be very grateful for the fact that our farmers have been responsible for making the American people the best fed, the best clothed, the richest people in the world. I know, too, that as far as our farmers are concerned many of them have not been getting a fair share of America's increasing prosperity. And I believe we need a program which will remedy that situation. I announced part of it last week; I'm going to make another speech Friday in South Dakota. This is the one area where we can move forward and where America's farmers will move forward with the rest of the American people for greater prosperity. This is one area I am sure will approve programs which will move America forward. Another area. I mentioned our students here. We have the finest school system in the world today. You know, more American youngsters can get a better education in this country and get it in a climate of freedom than youngsters can get in any country in the world but, my friends, it can be better. We must constantly improve our educational standards. We must constantly work not only for better buildings for our students, but most important of all we must work to see that our teachers receive a recognition and a compensation which will enable them to give us the highest standard of education in the world. And whatever the field is - whether it is in the field of providing an adequate share of America's income for our farmers; whether it is in moving ahead in the field of education; whether it's the field of providing better opportunities for our older citizens - not only protecting them against the hazards of old age and illness, but allowing them to live a more productive life in making their contribution to America's progress, rather than sitting on the sidelines. Whatever it is, America can and must move forward, and I'm proud of the platform of our party and I say we shall move forward under our leadership. [Applause.] Now, of course, a lot of people in this audience who haven't made up their minds yet how they're going to vote say: Just a minute - you're for better jobs and better schools and better income on the farm. Isn't everybody for that? And the answer is - of course. All Americans, Democrats and Republicans, want a better life for our people. The question is which kind of leadership can best provide it. What is the best way to this better America that we all want? And I say, my friends, our leadership is the best way because we've proved it and we've proved it in a number of ways. We can compare what we did in our 7 years with the 7 years before it and in every index that you want to take, America has moved forward better under Eisenhower than it moved forward under Mr. Truman in the administration which preceded it. [Applause.] And now, as far as the future is concerned: Why will we move forward better and more effectively than they? Because we know the secret of progress in this country. And you know where it is my friends? They say too often that the answer to every problem is to turn it over to Washington, D.C. Now, my friends, Uncle Sam can do a lot for the American people, but remember this: America is not going to make the progress it should if we're going to count on Uncle Sam to do it for us. The way we're going to make the progress we should in this country, my friends, is for Uncle Sam to do what he can for the American people, but what he can do best for them is encourage them, to stimulate them, and to give opportunity for 180 million free Americans to do the best they can for themselves. That is the secret of America's progress. [Applause.] And this means all of our citizens. It means that no Americans must be left behind. And it means that we must have programs which will enable them all to participate as they can contribute to America's greatness. Now I've mentioned progress in these fields that all of you are interested in. May I mention now another point which is perhaps the most important of all, certainly the most important when you consider the fact that I'm going to discuss now. Somebody could certainly raise the question here: What could be more important than good income on the farm if you're a farmer? And what could be more important than a good job if you're a wage earner? What could be more important than a good education if you're in school? And my answer is: What could be more important than a good job and all these other things is being around to enjoy it. And so the greatest responsibility of the next President of the United States, the greatest one is this: Which of the two candidates can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace for America without surrender and will extend freedom throughout the world? [Applause.] And I say to you today that on the record we believe we can do that job. I say to you today that I have a colleague running with me who will be a partner in working for extending the peace and keeping the peace. And, my friends, in commenting about him, may I say that I am proud to be on the ticket with him and certainly on commenting on his qualifications. I think you will agree with me when I declare that no man in the world to ay has done a more effective job, no man in the world today has been more experienced in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge in representing the United States at the United Nations. [Applause.]  Now, how do we propose to keep the peace? Let me summarize it in just a few minutes. One: We've got to keep America stronger than any other nation in the world and we must do this because our strength is the guarantee that those who might use their strength against peace and against freedom - our strength is a guarantee that they will be deterred from doing so. And we are the strongest Nation today - we must continue to be in the years ahead. Second: America's diplomacy must be firm. What do I mean by that? We must recognize that the man that we are dealing with, the "men" I should say, like Mr. Khrushchev, that we are dealing with, respect strength and they also respect firmness.  Now, what do I mean? Let me give you an illustration. You remember the recent Paris Conference in Paris - the conference in which Mr. Khrushchev broke it up, he said, on the grounds that President Eisenhower had ordered flights over Russian territory for the purpose of getting information with regard to their war preparations. And after that conference, President Eisenhower was criticized by some on the ground that he didn't do as much as he could to save it, that maybe he might have saved the conference so that we could go ahead and talk with Mr. Khrushchev by expressing regrets or apologizing for those flights. And my answer is: the President couldn't have done that for two reasons. One: when you're dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev you're not dealing with a man like leaders of the free world. He doesn't react, you see, like Mr. Eisenhower; he doesn't react like Mr. Macmillan or President De Gaulle or Chancellor Adenauer - this man is one who respects power; he is one who if you give him a concession without getting one in return, only asks for more. And, therefore, expressing regrets would have been exactly the wrong thing to do; it would have encouraged him to be more demanding than he was before. And the other reason the President was right in following the course he did was this: that no President of the United States must ever express regrets for doing what is right - attempting to defend the security of the United States. [Applause.] What should we do while Mr. Khrushchev is here in the United States? My answer is as I said yesterday at my press conference and in my speech: we should continue this campaign; we can continue to point out those things in which we think America can improve its economy and its military strength. But my friends, I add this other thing: At this time when there are many who are finding those things that are wrong about America and are pointing out things that are wrong and things which they criticize - let's not forget the things that are right about America and tell Mr. Khrushchev those as well while he's here on American soil. [Applause.] When we talk, for example, about the weaknesses we have militarily, let's not forget that we are still the strongest nation in the world and Mr. Khrushchev needs to know that and we know it as well. When we talk about what is wrong with our economy, let us point out that we are the richest, most productive nation in the world with more people with better jobs - earning more, spending more - enjoying a better, freer life than people have ever enjoyed in the history of the country. When people talk about the fact that American prestige is slipping around the world, there's a good answer to that: we just had some key votes in the United Nations - Mr. Khrushchev being on one side and the United States being on the other side. On one of them the score was 70 for us and nothing for him. That's good in football - it's better in the United Nations. [Applause.] And to those who say, my friends, that American prestige is slipping, that America has lost its friends in the world, I say they should travel abroad as I have and they would come back with the conclusion that I have that I give to you today: America today does have friends in the world, we do stand for peace; we do stand for what people on both sides of the Iron Curtain believe. And this is my last point and I emphasize it particularly. People often say: What can I do for peace? What can I do for my country? What can I do for the cause of freedom? What can I do to help whoever is President to see that America leads the world as it should? I'll tell you what you can do. You know what is the greatest weapon on our side in this struggle? It isn't our tremendous atomic power; it is not our tremendous economic productivity; but the greatest source of America's strength and the greatest advantage we have over the enemies of freedom is the fact that America stands for more than military strength, more than economic strength, more than sheer atheistic materialism. We stand for moral and spiritual values and these are the things that you, the people of America, must strengthen. They must come from you and you alone. [Applause.] And so, I say to this great audience here. Whatever you are, Republicans or Democrats or independents, however you vote in November, go back - strengthen our moral and spiritual fiber, strengthen our school system - because the strength of America in these areas comes from our schools, it comes from our churches, it comes from our families and our homes, and all these things we know you can do and we trust that as you do it America will present the picture that we need to present to the whole world - of a nation confident in its strength but primarily a nation that stands for the great ideals of faith in God, of belief in the dignity of man, a belief in the right of all men to be free as well as for ourselves to be free.  And now, my friends, may I conclude by saying just this to you. As I indicated at the outset, some of you are Republicans, some of you are Democrats. I only urge that when you vote - vote not simply the party label, but vote for what's best for America. And I urge you that if you believe that Henry Cabot Lodge and I can provide the leadership that America needs, then will you not only vote, but will you go out and work as you never have before - remembering that you're working not just for a man and just not for a party, but that you're working for ideals bigger than any man, bigger than any party, as great as the whole world itself. If you work that way, we will win a great victory for America and for the cause of freedom and peace throughout the world. Thank you. [Applause.]
Now I come to this campaign, the debates that will occur during this campaign, and the issues that I know are of great interest to you here. First, I realize this is an area in the heart of the great productive farm country of America. The president of the Farm Bureau, Mr. Shuman, comes from this area. You also are among the most productive farmers in not only America, but in the world, and the two things, of course, go together. I could discuss that issue at great length. I want to touch upon it at least briefly today. As you know, I made a major farm speech at Guthrie Center, Iowa, last week. I'm going to make another one on Friday in South Dakota. I hope you will have the opportunity to read or to hear one or the other or possibly both of them, but for those of you who are particularly interested in my attitude toward the farm problem, I think I can sum it up in a very few words. In the first place, I look upon the so-called farm problem not as a terrible mess, not as something that is insurmountable but as something that is an asset for the United States, and we should make it an asset rather than treating it as a liability, the fact that we are as productive as we are in the field of agriculture in this country of ours. Now, having said that, I think we have a pretty good indication of how much of an asset it is when we consider the fact that Mr. Khrushchev is now visiting this country. I remember when I was in the Soviet Union he was bragging, as he has since, on his visit here and around the world, about how his country was going to pass ours in productivity, and he used that very colorful gesture of his when he said, "We're going to pass you, Mr. Vice President. We're moving faster than you are. When we do, we're going to wave goodby and tell you, 'come along and follow us. Do as we do or you're going to fall way behind."' Well, now, I intend to have more to say about his ability economically, about his economic capacity, tonight in my speech at Rockford, but I will indicate my attitude toward him here and I will tie it to our farm productivity in this way. Mr. Khrushchev isn't going to catch us because of the fatal defects in his own economy and because of the great strength of our economy, and in the area of farm productivity we have eloquent proof of the truth of what I have just stated. We have approximately, on the outside, 7 million farmers and farm workers m the United States, and they produce as much in the basic commodities, and of better quality, as it takes 50 million farmers and farm workers in the Soviet Union to produce. Until he is able to close that gap, the gap in the productivity of those on his farms, in agriculture in the Soviet Union he does not have a chance to make good on his boast of passing the United States in productivity on the farms. Since this is a tremendous asset in this struggle for the world, a national asset, the productivity of our farmers, it seems to me that it is essential that we conserve it, that we conserve it by making sure that those who give us this advantage, the farmers, get a fair share of America's greatly increasing prosperity. Some farmers have done reasonably well. Others have not participated to the extent that they should in the increasing prosperity of the United States. I can assure you that the programs that I have studied and that I have adopted and will have recommended in these two speeches will, in my opinion, provide that fair share so that the farmers will have the opportunity not only to serve the Nation as they are so well, through their productivity, but to receive their share of the increasing growth of this country as they serve the Nation as well as they do. There are many things that we can do to bring this about. Some of them I discussed in my speech last week. One is to use our surpluses, a program of using them or, as I call it, of Operation Consume, and this means using them even more effectively than we have in carrying out the foreign policy objectives of the United States. It means using them more than we have in providing the strategic food reserve that this Nation must have and that it should have and will have in this period when we need such a reserve in the event that war should come to the United States. It means, in addition, converting our farm products, which are in surplus to more usable, salable form so that we can increase the markets at home and abroad. All of these things, aimed at dealing with the surplus, combined with the program of payment in kind to those farmers who reduce production, so that they will not have to pay for the reduction in their production, pay for it themselves, so that the U.S. Government does assume the responsibility of indemnity, as I called it, for the fact that our farmers have produced this tremendous surplus, because the Government has asked them to do it, I think can greatly increase the consumption of our farm products and that, combined with the program that I will announce Friday, I believe, will deal with this problem in the way that Americans want it dealt with, not in the way in which we will fasten Government controls from Washington on the farmers of America forever and ever in the years to come - this we do not want and this we shall not have - and not, on the other side, with the program that would, in effect, bankrupt some of our farmers while we were attempting to solve the surplus problem. This we cannot have. What we must have is a program which will meet the problem of surpluses and at the same time provide for the tremendously increased productive capacity of our farmers and provide for it in the ways I have suggested and in ways that will, in the end, lead to less governmental controls rather than more.  So, on that subject, may I say we could talk at more length, but I have other things to say now and I intend to cover this, as I indicated, in my speech in South Dakota on Friday.
 Mr. Birdsell, distinguished guests on the platform and in the audience: I am very honored to participate in this ceremony this morning and particularly so in view of the award which has just been made by Tommy Johnson. Incidentally, as he stood there on that platform before this illustrious audience in Beloit, I think the very poise that he showed is an indication that the Boys' Clubs do a fine job - and certainly he made us very proud of all the boys of America the way he handled that situation. I know how he must have perhaps been looking forward to it because people often say to me: "Do you ever get any tension before you make a speech?" And the answer is: I remember when I was 13 and used to make a little talk now and then I used to get a little tension, and the speeches are never any good unless you are a little bit up to them, and I thought Tommy did a wonderful job. Here's a future speaker. We can say that. I have much that I could say about the Boys' Clubs, their operations throughout the United States. As our national director, Mr. Gleason, has indicated, I have participated in many ceremonies - in Washington, in Miami, and in other cities around the country - having to do with the Boys' Clubs of America, and I can say, first of all, to all of those who have made this fine installation possible, I just don't know of any contribution you could make to your community and to your Nation which is more worthwhile and which in the long run will be more productive of good than the one you have made to the Boys' Clubs of America. You know this organization, certainly. You have been reading in your local newspapers about its background and what it is intended to accomplish in this community. I will not go into detail on that particular point. I would like to make some observations, however, with regard to what the Boys' Clubs and similar organizations like it tell us about the special character of our American system. I recall when we visited the Soviet Union my wife, Pat, and I on one occasion had a chance to see a club. It was a boys' club. It was called a Pioneer Camp. She went through several of them on this trip. I saw the members of one. This was run by the Government. Now, as far as the boys were concerned, they looked just like Tommy. They were all in uniform. They ate the same things. They wore the same clothes. They had absolutely no diversity whatever in choice as to what they would do when they grew to manhood, and as far as the camps in which they lived were concerned there was no problem of getting contributions from people like yourselves who voluntarily select among the groups to which you want to make contributions because it was all done by the Government. And sometimes it must occur to you when the Boys' Clubs come one week and the Red Cross the next and the YMCA the next and the Community Chest the next: Isn't there a more efficient way of taking care of all these problems, of providing boys' clubs and of contributing to Girl Scouts, for example. I am partial to girls, of course, because we have girls in our family. And, yes, there is a more efficient way to do it. We could do it as they do it in the totalitarian countries. We could all be taxed for the purpose of having one central direction by Government for the activities for our young people and for all people who need assistance or to whom the Government should render special services, but it would lose something. It would lose something which the Boys' Clubs of America particularly stand for. It would be completely impersonal. It would not develop boys like Tommy that we have seen here today with great individuality. It would be an organization, in effect, without a heart. If there is one thing about our great organizations like the Boys' Clubs and similar ones throughout America - and literally there are, of course, hundreds and perhaps thousands of organizations similar to this one, each making its own contribution in its own individual way to a better life for our children - it is that such organizations, supported because people have a heart, are not just mechanical; they are not just impersonal, but they have a part in dealing with the problems of our young people. This, I think, is something of which all of you can be immensely proud today, that you have made it possible for boys in this community, from all sectors of the economy, the rich boys, the poor boys, boys in this community from all the various groups that are represented from the standpoint of race, or creed or color, to come here to find a fine, constructive, healthy atmosphere in which to spend their leisure time. That you have made this possible is a great compliment to all of you who have participated in this work. I say to you today that you have not only helped the boys of Beloit, but you have helped maintain something very precious in the United States, and that is this approach to the problems that we have in our country, which is nongovernment in character, which is voluntary and which, therefore, can emphasize the individual rather than simply the great impersonal state. This does not mean, of course, the government, whether it is Federal State or local, cannot and would not play a significant part in activities designed to see that our young people have what has been called an equal chance at the starting line or, since the baseball season is about ending, we may not all be able to hit home runs, but we want our turn at bat. Government must play apart in that. Our schools that are supported by taxes play a significant part in that. But organizations like this can play a part that government simply is incapable of playing, and that is why I was particularly happy to be able to leave the campaign trail for these few minutes, to spend them with you, to pay a tribute to you and to pay a tribute also to this organization which is headed by Mr. Hoover and which is represented by Mr. Glean today. I would add just one final thought: As we look into the future, as we consider this great struggle in which we're engaged with the forces of totalitarianism on one side and the forces of freedom on the other side, one of those factors which makes me confident of its outcome is what I see here today, the fact that our people - and this is true of people everywhere if they are given a chance - will support an organization, not because it's going to do you some good, not for any selfish motive, but because it's the right thing to do, because you are interested in the boys, not just your own boys, but you're interested in all the boys in this community. And I might suggest if we could relate this to the great meeting going on at the United Nations in New York today, if we could relate it to the difference in approach between the United States as represented by President Eisenhower and the Soviet Union as represented by Chairman Khrushchev, this same characteristic stands out. We hear about our foreign-aid programs and theirs. We sometimes perhaps get the idea that this is just a contest in which each is trying to outbid the other, in Africa, in Asia, in Latin America, for the support of these peoples, but let me say that what gives the United States and the free nations an advantage, the reason that in the long run we will prevail, is that, not only through government, but through private organizations and private contributions like CARE, the people of the United States would be willing and have been willing from the time of their foundation to help the people of other countries who need help - not because we're fighting communism, not because we're fighting for something selfish for ourselves, but because it's the right thing to do, because if there were no communism in the world there would still be hungry people. If there were no communism in the world there would still be slavery and the denial of freedom. And if there were no communism in the world, with these things existing, we would care, as a people, as a nation. So, that's a far cry, it seems, from the Boys' Club dedication here in Beloit, but actually the same great principle works here; and so, I say to you: Thank you for helping to keep alive in this community, in this State, in this Nation, this great concept of helping people not because it helps ourselves, but because it's the right thing to do. This principle joins us together. This principle is one that certainly unites all Americans, regardless of the very small differences - and they are very small - that we may have on the basis of religion or creed or anything else. It is also the principle that unites men of good will throughout the world, and it is because America, in a community like this, in a State, in a Nation and in its foreign policy, stands for this principle that we can have faith that these grave international problems will be solved with peace and that freedom will prevail throughout the world. Thank you.
 Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. [Applause.] Thank you. [Applause.] Thank you very much, Andy Schoeppel, for your introduction and I can only say in response that I well remember that meeting 4 years ago here in this very hall. Afterward, I said to Pat that I didn't think you could ever exceed that rally and its excitement and its enthusiasm. I remember all the groups of the young students and college students down in front - there weren't quite as many press following me then at that time and you were a little closer, but I must say that while I didn't think it was possible, you've done it. This is certainly one of the great rallies of the campaign and we thank you tremendously for making it so tonight. [Applause.] There are so many people that I would like to express appreciation to - to the bands, to all of the student groups, to our "Nixon girls" down here in front who make the audience look so very attractive to the speakers, and may I say to particularly all of you who have come to swell the crowd and to you on television and radio - we appreciate your being with us tonight.  As you know, Pat and I have been doing a little traveling since that time 4 years ago, some outside the United States and recently, some very intensive traveling within the United States, and as we come to Kansas City tonight we are nearing the end of the second week of 2 intensive weeks of campaigning which started in Baltimore, Md., on Monday, a week ago.  Now, as far as the weather is concerned, we had what we thought was an inauspicious start. It just rained cats and dogs in Baltimore and they had to move the great airport rally inside and the President was there and Cabot Lodge was there - all the party officials, as well as a great number of people from the surrounding Maryland countryside. And then the President reminded us of something, something that will be very close to the heart of Kansas. He said, "You shouldn't be discouraged by the fact that it rained on this first appearance." He said, "I remember when I opened my campaign at Abilene, it rained twice as hard as it did on this night, and it is a good omen. If it was good for me, it's going to be good for you, too." [Applause.]  Thank you. Well, we've had a little weather today, too. I attended a plowing contest up in South Dakota and it rained, but the crowd still came out because the farmers of America are a hardy people. They like the rain and they will come and stand in it and they were very gracious and considerate, I must say. And I can only say that as far as that rain was concerned, and we also had rain in Pennsylvania and at one other stop, that while the climate from the standpoint of the weather is concerned has been somewhat uncertain, there sure hasn't been anything wrong with the political climate on this four. It couldn't be better and it is capped by tonight. [Applause.] And I am delighted to see it because this means that here in the State of Kansas, you're going to do what the Nation expects Kansas to do, to keep together your great team of Senators by reelecting the man who introduced me so generously, Andy Schoeppel, with the biggest majority he has ever had in the State of Kansas. [Applause.]  You're going to return Kansas to its Republican tradition in the governorship by electing John Anderson Governor of this State. [Applause.] And I also say that you're going to give us more Republicans in the House of Representatives and Kansas City, Kans. is going to help by sending Bob Ellsworth to the Congress of the United States for Representative. [Applause.] I see the Ellsworth group right down in front of me on my right here, and we're awfully glad to have them. And since we are speaking in Kansas, but since our friends in Missouri are so close across the river, I think you should know that we had two great meetings in Missouri, one in Springfield, one in St. Joe and I'm going to make a prediction tonight. While I was there I was tremendously encouraged by what I saw - the new spirit of enthusiasm in that State for our cause - I couldn't say anything about the Senate race then because our candidate hadn't been chosen. Now that he has been chosen, Lon Hocker, I'm going to say this: That here is one place where our opposition is in for the fight of their lives and we can and we will pick up a Senate seat there if we go to work in the State of Missouri. [Applause.] Your applause drowned out the last of what I said - I said if we go to work as we should, and that counts for Kansas, it counts for Missouri, it counts for every State in this Union. Because, my friends, let me say this: We're taking nothing for granted in this campaign, we don't care what the polls show, if they show us a mile ahead we aren't going to be taking anything for granted, we are going to fight this campaign right down to the wire because that is the way to assure victory and I can assure you that in this State, in Missouri, in all the other States, we want you to work with us will just that spirit. If you do, we will win and that's what we're out to do. [Applause.] Now I found, of course, a number of very interesting things on this campaign tour so far. One thing I found is the similarity in the attitudes of audiences on the great issues confronting the Nation. People in this country do have different attitudes, depending upon the part of the country they come from; depending, to an extent, upon the occupational group in which they may find themselves. But you know what I find? I find that those great issues that unite Americans are certainly ones that are overriding and make the others seem very insignificant by comparison, and North, East, West, and South, whether it is across in Springfield, Mo., or here in Kansas City, Kans., Sioux Falls, S. Dak., or San Francisco, Calif., or Hawaii, or Maine, I find every place that I go the issue of overriding concern in this campaign, the one that dwarfs all the rest is the one that dominates your newspaper headlines tonight and tomorrow morning. And it is this. Which of the two candidates for the Presidency, which of the two candidates for the Vice Presidency, by experience, by background, by program, can best keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? [Applause.] Our young people in front of me will well understand that, facing, as they do, the military service which they will have, but all people in America will understand it because they know, as we know, that we can find solutions to every domestic problem that we have and we are finding solutions for them and we will present them during the course of this campaign, but the thing is to be around to enjoy the solutions we find to all of our other problems, and so, therefore [applause], I would like to discuss tonight some of the reasons why I believe that our ticket deserves the support not only of Republicans in this State and in the Nation, but of the Democrats and independents as well, who are thinking of the leadership that America needs apart from any partisan consideration that might be involved. And the first credential that we have to offer is our record, and it is, I say, a great record. I think that the people of the United States are going to be grateful to President Eisenhower for a number of his achievements during his 8 years as President. They will be grateful of the fact that he brought dignity and respect and honor to the highest office in this land; they will be grateful for the fact that under his leadership [applause] - they will be grateful for the fact that under his leadership America has enjoyed the greatest progress, economically, in its history, but, above all, Americans will be eternally grateful to Dwight D. Eisenhower in the role that all Americans were so tremendously proud of him yesterday, when he stood at the United Nations. [Applause.] Dwight Eisenhower, the great war leader, the man who ended one war, has kept America out of other wars, and who has brought us peace without surrender today for America and for the free world. [Applause.] And so we believe our record is one - a one that deserves the consideration and the approval of the American people. We also believe that in the area of experience we have credentials that should be taken into account. I, of course, should not comment on my experience. That would be presumptuous, but I can say something about the experience of the man who will visit this city next Tuesday, and I know you will be out to see him, my running mate. And in speaking of his experience - and I will say this: I don't know of any man in the world today who has had more experience and who has done a more effective job than standing vigorously and fighting for and talking for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. [Applause.] And I pledge to this great audience tonight, to those listening on television and radio, that he will be a partner with me, that we shall work together in strengthening the instruments of peace, great organizations like the United Nations and the Organization of American States, strengthening the instruments of freedom, working in the cause which is of such overriding concern not only to the people of this country but to people throughout the world. Now, what will our program be? What do we stand for? What are the things the American Government, the American President, the American people must support if we are to keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom? And the first ingredient is one that everybody will understand and appreciate; that is, that America must continue to maintain what she does have today, and that is the position of being the strongest Nation in the world militarily. [Applause.] We have that strength and we will continue it, not because we ever want to use it for aggressive purposes but, as the President has so often and so eloquently indicated, because we must have such strength to deter those who would want to use military power to extend their domination over other people. And so as long as the Communist leaders are on the move, as long as they do indicate that they intend to conquer the world, as long as they do maintain military strength, America and her allies must pay whatever price is necessary to see that we are never at a disadvantage and that we maintain an advantage that will discourage them ever from attacking us or any other free nation. [Applause.] Now, in addition to that military strength, America must continue to be, and I again say "continue to be," what she is today, the strongest nation in the world economically. Why is this so essential? Because the race in which we are engaged, this competition, is not only military in character, it is economic in character. Mr. Khrushchev has challenged us to competition. I remember that he told me when I visited the Soviet Union that he intended to catch us - he admitted he was behind, but he intended to catch us and that he intended to pass us, and he said: "When we pass you, we're going to wave to you and then say, 'Come along, follow us and do as we do or you're going to fall too far behind in this race.'" And our answer to him is this: We will not fall behind. Mr. Khrushchev will not catch us, not in the 7 years that he says, nor in the 70 years, provided we stay true to the principles that have made America the most productive nation on the face of the world today. [Applause.] Now, let me emphasize: In the military field, in the economic field, this does not mean standing pat in what we're doing. It means moving ahead, always moving ahead, because when you are in a race the only way to stay ahead is to move ahead. And in the economic field we shall move ahead. We will strengthen our economy. We shall see that our growth continues to increase in the years ahead. What difference, then, do we have with our opponents in this field? A very significant one. They point always as a method of the soaring greater growth of this country to the Federal Government. The Federal Government must increase not only what it is doing in the economy, but also it must increase its expenditures generally just for the sake of getting growth in and of itself. And we start at the other end of the spectrum. We say that the way to greater growth in a free country like America is not to increase the size and the functions of the Federal Government just for that reason, but that the way to greater growth is for the Federal Government to adopt policies which will encourage to the utmost the creative, inventive genius of 180 million free American citizens. [Applause.] And if we stay true to these principles, we will continue to maintain the economic advantage which is essential in this race in which we're engaged. And then there is a third strength that we must maintain. It is more important than the other two in the final analysis because it may prove to be decisive, and I speak of the moral and spiritual strength, the strength of the ideals of this country. Why are they important? They are important because it is in this area that we have something that the atheistic materialists, who are represented by the Communist leaders, cannot match and do not have. You know, my friends [applause] - look at the history of America. One hundred and eighty-five years ago we were a very weak country militarily compared with the other world powers. We were a very weak country economically and agriculturally, and very little industry to speak of, but we were one of the strongest nations in the world and the peoples in the world. Why? Because we stood for ideals that were greater than America. Ideals that belonged to all humanity. Ideals that come not from men but from God, and I speak of faith in God, faith and respect for the dignity of all men, regardless of their background or their race or color. [Applause.] Recognition of the fact that freedom and independence - these words which sometimes we take for granted because we have enjoyed them so long - that they belong not only to us, but that they belong to peoples throughout the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain. That was the reason, may I say, that my wife and I received in Poland the tremendous reception that we did. Because the people of Poland behind the Iron Curtain know that America had been for its history and still was the hope of people who wanted freedom, that it stood for ideals greater than any military strength or economic strength than we could possibly imagine. And so these three areas of strength America must have. And the third area must come, not just from your leaders in Washington - oh, it would be easy to say that a President can provide the moral and spiritual strength that a nation needs - it must come from our people themselves because that is built into our people, into our children, at the home, at the schools, in our churches, and I ask you to do everything you can to see that America does build its moral and spiritual strength so that we can win the struggle for peace and freedom in these years ahead. [Applause.] But now that we have this strength, we now come to the key question. How do we use it? America, a strong nation militarily, a strong nation economically, one with ideals that have a tremendous appeal around the world - how do we use it? And here is where national leadership comes into play. At the diplomatic table, the United States must continue the splendid example set by President Eisenhower, an example of always being willing to go the extra mile to negotiate in the cause of peace but never being willing to negotiate away the rights of our friends or the rights of people to be free anyplace in the world. [Applause.] It means standing firmly for principles without being belligerent. The best example of one, which I've repeated, and I repeat it tonight, was the President's conduct in Paris at the Paris Conference. You recall that Mr. Khrushchev broke it up over the U-2 incident. There was some criticism of the President. Some said, on the one side, that he should have answered his insults in kind, and I say that the President was right in that respect because when you are confident of your strength, when you know you're right, you don't get down to the level of a name caller like Mr. Khrushchev, you maintain the dignity of your office and of your country. [Applause.] But all of the critics didn't take that point of view. There were others who suggested the President didn't do enough to save the Conference. That possibly he might have acceded to Mr. Khrushchev's request to express regrets or apologize for the flights in order to save the Conference. And here again, may I say, this would have been a grave error. A grave error on two counts. One, because it shows the naive attitude with regard to the reaction of a Communist leader. I know, from having talked to him and to others like him, that when you make a concession which he knows is not justified, it does not satisfy him, it only whets his appetite and makes him ask for more. [Applause] And so the President was correct in refusing to accede to that request when it would have been unjustified to do so. And then the other ground, of course, is one that every American will understand. No President of the United States, Democrat or Republican, can ever consider expressing regrets for attempting to defend the security of his country against surprise attack. [Applause.] Now you will gather from what I've said that I'm proud of the record of our administration, that I believe that we offer leadership and a program which can best keep the peace without surrender, as I have indicated. Now the question is, What about those who criticize this record, what about those who raise questions about it? And I would like to talk on that point for just a moment.  Criticism in a political campaign is essential in order to see what is wrong with our country's record and in order to correct what is wrong. But, my friends, I would add only this one thought. When we point out the things that are wrong about the United States, and this is particularly so when the Communist leaders are visiting this country, I say that there is a responsibility upon all Americans to point out the great strengths of this country, what is right about America as well. [Applause.] For example, when we point out, as the critics do, and they have a right to, that there may be deficiencies militarily, let's not overlook the fact that we are the strongest Nation in the world, and let's make that clear. If they point out that there are weaknesses economically, we must, at the same time, make it clear that we are the strongest country economically and that our system is superior and we will continue to maintain the advantage. And then there is one point on which I feel particularly strongly, and that is upon this constant harping to the effect that the United States is losing prestige. That our prestige is at an all-time low around the world. My friends, let me give you an example that disproves that point - one very close to home. Kansas won a rather significant game when they upset TCU, 21 to 7. That was a pretty good score. [Applause.] Now if American prestige were low the place that it would show up would be where the votes are counted and that's in the United Nations. They had a vote the other day on the Congo. The Russians were on one side and we were on the other side. The score was pretty good. It was better than 21 to 7; it would be very good in football; it was tremendous in international relations. They didn't get any votes and we got 70, and I say that is the answer to those who say - [applause]. I say that the fact that in the 7½ years he was at the United Nations, Cabot Lodge was never in a position where the position of the United States was not sustained on a major issue. That proves that American prestige is high in the world, and I would add this further point. The reception that the President received for his great speech before the United Nations is another answer to that. May I close by pointing up my own personal experience and by indicating a word of faith with regard to the future in this great area. I indicated that we have seen much of the world, 55 countries we have traveled to, and I can tell you, my friends, we are going to win the struggle for peace and freedom, we're going to win it because we are on the right side, and we're going to win it because the people of the world are on the right side. They are on the side of peace. [Applause.] The people of the world are on the side of peace. They are on the side of freedom. All that they need is the leadership of America and our strong friends and allies around the world for that position to be sustained. And I pledge to you, that if the opportunity is presented to my colleague and to me to provide that leadership, that we shall, to the very best of our ability, do everything that we can to maintain those great American ideals which have been the admiration of the world for so many years and which it is America's destiny to extend to all the world. And now, if I might ask you to do something. You have heard my case. You have had an opportunity to indicate your approval of those portions of it that you have heard, may I ask you now to go forth from this hall and if you believe as I believe, and ours is the leadership that America needs, clearly apart from the party to which you may belong, then I say, go forth and carry this message into every precinct, into every home in the neighborhoods in which you live, and we shall win a great victory not just for our party but for America and for everything she stands for. Thank you. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. Thank you. Thank you very much, Buzz. And may I say also thank you to all of you who have come to greet us on this occasion. As we were riding into the airport here I saw these cars parked so many, many blocks away and I saw people coming along carrying youngsters, with rain coming down and I realize really what an effort it is for you folks to drive so far to get up early in the morning and drive so far and then to come to the airport and for your inconvenience, for the effort that you have made, believe me, Pat and I deeply appreciate it. I can only say that when you will make this kind of an effort to come greet us at an airport we say that things look good on November 8 for our Republican candidates in the State of Wisconsin. [Applause.] I am delighted to have the opportunity to be introduced by Buzz Kean, our candidate for Governor and as I know his record as I have known him through the years, I think that we have here a young man, young in years at least, but a man with all the vitality and the vigor that will give to this great State a splendid administration and I think he is going to be heard from outside of Wisconsin as well as in Wisconsin, and we really need him as your Governor, and I am glad to say this word for him as I visit with his friends and neighbors here in the State of Wisconsin. [Applause.] I am also very happy to have an opportunity to speak in behalf of our other Republican candidates, our candidate for Congress, Henry Shatterberg, and to urge your consideration and support of them. I say this because I did believe that these men not only are candidates for the Congress but those for the State assembly and the State legislature, that they are the men who can give you the kind of government you want, the best kind of government, the best for yourselves and looking to the future, for your children, and so I come here knowing that perhaps most of you came to see Pat and me, but urging you that at a time when you naturally can get very excited about a presidential campaign do not forget that government that you have at the State level and the local level is just as important and work just as hard for the candidates there as you do for us, and we will be very happy and you will be the better off for it, too. [Applause.] And now with the weather apparently closing in, I would like to say just a few words with regard to the issues of this campaign, what I think they mean to you, what I think they mean to the Nation and to the world. All of you are aware of the fact that when we elect a President of the United States, think of considerations away beyond our own selfish interests. I mean by that that naturally we are concerned when we elect a President about how the Government's policies in Washington are going to affect our community and our State, how they are going to affect our family, how they are going to affect our jobs. We are also concerned, however, by other things. We are concerned about our country and its future, and I suppose the reason that when we elect a President we think in terms of the country and its future that we are really thinking of our children, the opportunity that they have for a better life than what we have had, and I want to tell you today that the first thing that we particularly want to bring home to the people of America is that we are tremendously proud of the record of our administration, and certainly all Americans were proud of President Eisenhower yesterday as he represented us so magnificently at the United Nations with Mr. Khrushchev in the audience. We are proud of the fact that he has brought such magnificent dignity and stature to the office of the Presidency. We are proud of the fact, too, that he has given us government that has resulted in a progress that has been unsurpassed in any 8-year period in history, but above all I think that Americans are grateful and will be grateful to him for the fact that he ended a war in which we were participating and that we have been kept out of other wars and that we have peace without surrender today. And what I want to tell you is that I believe that the major responsibility of the next President in addition to his general responsibilities to see that America continues to progress in every field, the major responsibility is to be sure that America is able to keep the peace, keep it without surrender and extend freedom so that these young people here who are before us in this band will always wear the uniforms of peace and will not have to wear the uniforms of war. This is the greatest pledge that we can make by a President of the United States. [Applause.] With the rain coming down I cannot, of course, discuss these issues in detail but I just want to say this: I think I know something about the problems of the world and particularly I think I know something about the reactions of those who threaten the peace of the world, Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues. I know that these years ahead are going to take the strongest military power that the world has ever seen, that we must have that and we intend to maintain it. I know that our economy must continue to move forward and I know also that if we are to have peace we must be firm, we must never make a concession to them without getting a concession in return. We must always stand for not only our own freedom but for the right of other people to be free because only with this kind of a policy can we really keep the peace. And a policy of weakness, one that assumes that men like Mr. Khrushchev would react like other leaders in the world who are not Communists, is one that would not lead to peace but it would lead to the very things that we do not want. So my friends I say to you that together with my colleague Cabot Lodge, who has done such a splendid job of representing the cause of peace and freedom at the United Nations, we shall if you give us the opportunity stand for a strong America, for an America of progress in all areas, but above all, an America in which our children can grow up in peace and in freedom. We believe we have the program. We believe we have the experience which can provide that kind of leadership and if you agree with us we ask you in this great key State of Wisconsin, always a battleground as we know a battleground in primaries, a battleground in final contests - we ask you to go out and work just as hard as you possibly can and while the weather may be a little bad here let us be sure that the political weather on November 8 is good and that means a vote for the Republican candidates right down the line. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Last Friday at Guthrie Center, I described what I call Operation Consume, one phase of a two-pronged attack on the farm problem. Operation Consume is designed to attack vigorously our present price-depressing surpluses, remove their threat to the farmer's future, stabilize and strengthen farm family income, and make it possible to ease governmental restrictions on agriculture. Its four main efforts are to expand the food-for-peace program; to create a strategic food reserve; to use payments-in-kind from our surpluses to help expand land conservation; and, finally, to convert grain to protein foods for sale overseas and for distribution to the needy at home and abroad. Until we are determined to do what is necessary to get those surpluses down by converting them to mankind's good, we cannot hope to look ahead confidently to a bright future in agriculture. Believing this, I am determined to mount an all-out attack on these surpluses - putting aside petty politics, short-run considerations of cost, and other hesitancies that would keep us from meeting this challenge that for so long has rightly concerned every farmer. Today, I want to take up the second major phase of what I believe is a sensible approach to the farm problem. I call this second phase Operation Safeguard. Where Operation Consume is an attack on the surpluses we already have, Operation Safeguard is designed to keep us from accumulating still more. Before explaining Operation Safeguard, I want to restate certain things stressed in my Iowa talk last week, that I consider basic to all farm discussions. First of all, we must change the prevailing outlook in our country toward the marvelous efficiency of our agriculture. I say this be-cause it represents one of America's greatest strengths. We should recognize this bounty for what it is - a blessing and an opportunity - and not consider it a liability and a burden. Indeed, we in America should be profoundly grateful to all who ranch and farm. You of the agricultural community contributed magnificently to victory in World Wars I and II. For many years you have helped keep the people of our country the best-fed and best-clothed people on earth. We saw the importance of this farm productivity again when, a decade ago, we got into the Korean war. There our own soldiers were the best fed and best clothed on earth. Today we see its importance again, in our struggle with the Communist overlords in Moscow and Peiping. Clearly, we must use this productivity in mounting a climactic war against hunger among people who aspire with us to live in freedom. So, considering these things, we must take pride in, and safeguard, our resources of food and fiber, just as we keep our military might in readiness. For food is ammunition in the struggle for peace and freedom. Not only is it imperative for life itself, but it is also an instrument of vast power in support of millions of people who need more food and better diets to help carry the battle for human dignity. I emphasized these things last week in connection with Operation Consume. Now, let us turn to Operation Safeguard - an equally essential program designed to keep new, burdensome surpluses from accumulating. I think we can all agree, that new approaches to the surplus problem are indispensable, for our existing laws have had and are still having disheartening effects on one and all, in and out of agriculture. Let me give a few examples of what I mean. In a period of general prosperity, what has happened to the farmer? Farm income has not fully shared in the general gains of the country. Since World War II our farm programs have cost billions of tax dollars without achieving their purpose. Both here at home and abroad, farm markets have been lost to synthetics and foreign competition. Our price-support laws are inequitable because they help small farmers the least, and the most prosperous farmers the most. As is evidenced by our 2-year supply of wheat, carryovers of some commodities have grown so large that they depress prices. Acreage forbidden to controlled crops has often been turned to uncontrolled crops, tending simply to generate new surplus troubles elsewhere. New fertilizers and other improvements have, more often than not, offset production decreases achieved through land retirement. So, all in all, it is a disappointing and frustrating situation - our agriculture has been made the cat's-paw of politicians. It has been dealt with unrealistically. Now prices and incomes are distorted. Markets are impaired. Production tends to be controlled more and more tightly, with no relief in sight. The future is uncertain and unreliable, especially for our farm youth. Farmers rightly expect their Congress to do better than this. I wholeheartedly agree that it should and it must. As a matter of fact, in the light of these troubles, many of them long-established, some have come to feel that all is lost - that we just ought to throw up our hands and admit that there are no practical solution to our agricultural concerns. I disagree for these reasons. First, Operation Consume, which I presented last week, will attack a key part of the trouble - the surpluses on hand. Second, we can foresee that our other troubles are going to be manageable, both because of what I shall propose here today and because of the predictable growth of domestic and foreign markets. The fact is that, before too many years have gone by, the present overcapacity that concerns us so much in some products may well become undercapacity. There are two reasons for this expectation. One is that we are eating more of some products ourselves, and we also need to supplement the diets of others in the world. The second is that population here and elsewhere is growing at a remarkable rate. An example of the first point - our own increased consumption - is the market demand for beef, which generally has grown faster than our population has grown. Since 1955 we Americans have been eating more than 80 pounds of beef per person each year. Only 10 years ago it was 66 pounds. It was 10 pounds less a decade before that. So, as diets improve at home, farmers' markets improve, too. And then, we know that abroad, all of Africa, the entire Orient, and much of Latin America and Europe badly need low-cost foodstuffs, We are already developing part of this great market with our Public Law 480 program. The tragic fact is that the great majority of people on this globe are hungry or undernourished. I have seen heart-breaking evidence of this almost everywhere I have traveled around the earth. Looking beyond the present, we see the world population growing at an amazing speed. Some experts expect it to double in 40 years, going from 3 to 6 billion. And what of our own population, which now is 180 million? It is expected to grow by 30 to 50 million in the next 10 years and by 50 to 90 million in the next 20 years. There can be no doubt that our farmers' domestic and foreign markets will rapidly expand over the years ahead. But that's tomorrow. What about today? We have gigantic surpluses, and we know that these have got to be reduced by constructive use. In the meantime, we have got to keep from building them right back up as we cut them down. And so, along with Operation Consume - with which we will utilize the surplus we already have - must go Operation Safeguard, which I propose as a group of measures to stop building new surpluses. Now, let's consider Operation Safeguard for a moment. It includes six main efforts. First I would mention a substantial expansion of the conservation reserve program, on a temporary basis, to help adjust production to our Nation's needs. I say it should be temporary for the reason just stated: In the future, as population expands in America and the world, we will need every last acre we can find. But, as of now, acres that add to our excess production can be voluntarily retired, with fair rentals, for periods of 3 to 10 years. There is this added advantage: The conservation reserve amounts to a form of income insurance. It also constitutes voluntary production control by farmers themselves. Both of these aspects appeal especially to me. Now I realize that, in expanding the conservation reserve there are difficulties that we must carefully avoid. It is imperative that we see that it is wisely administered. Otherwise it will be abused, cause resentment, and defeat its own purpose. For example, it is self-defeating to shift only marginal land to grass and trees. Productive land as well needs to be retired if we are going to match current need with output. Moreover, we must avoid injury to the economies of local communities, as acres go out of production. Good conservation practice on rented lands is an absolute necessity. We must have sensible management of this kind. The second aspect of Operation Safeguard is an effective system of price supports. This is a controversial and difficult question, and I want to talk frankly with you about it. It is my belief that price supports have a place, and an important place, in a dynamic program for farm progress. The challenge before us is to find ways to use them intelligently to help farmers. In all aspects of our farm policy we must recognize this plain fact - we cannot move from where we are to where we want to go in a single step. I know that farm people look forward to the day when they can once again make their own decisions as to what to plant and when they can sell their output profitably into the normal channels of trade, and not to the Government. But first we must get through the transition period in which we cut down the price-depressing surplus that overhangs the market and in which we bring agriculture into better balance. Thereafter, farmers can regain their freedom to grow what they wish for markets freed of the burden of accumulated stocks of commodities. During the transitional period, while Operation Consume deals with the surplus, a special effort must be made to bring current output and consumption more nearly into balance in the period before the conservation reserve has been expanded to its full effectiveness. To this end I anticipate it may be necessary to legislate a temporary cutback in acreage allotments of any price-supported crop so heavily in surplus as to bring injury to those who farm that crop. Wheat is the current example. I would have the land thus withdrawn from production administered as part of the conservation reserve program. During such a time farmer income must be protected. Toward accomplishing this objective, favorable payments in kind could be used to help compensate farmers for the mandatory cut in acreage, thus avoiding harmful adjustments in price support levels in the transition period. By these actions farmer income, and markets as well, can be protected during the transition years. Once we deal with price-depressing surpluses, and once markets achieve a new buoyancy reflecting a better relationship of supplies to demand, we should move to a long-term price support system with levels based on an average of market prices over the immediately preceding crop years. At that time, the farmer's freedom to operate can be restored, and he can confidently plan for the future without looking over his shoulder at the constant threat of piled-up surpluses. I have some personal observations about this price support problem. I believe our present congressional deadlock on the subject has resulted from an insistence on the one hand that we move toward more normal conditions at a speed and by a means that would have failed adequately to protect farmer income in the period of transition and, on the other hand, from insistence on political programs that would have stunted markets, added to surpluses, and required almost day-to-day control of the farmer by the Federal Government. Neither extreme makes sense to me. Rather, I propose that we take the responsible way I have outlined here. I believe it is a realistic, forward-looking way. Let us resolve, however, here and now to free our minds from fixations upon any pet figures, any pet formulas, any slogans and symbols which get in the way of clear and constructive thinking. In the interest of our farm families, I believe deeply that both political parties should take this to heart. If we are to make enduring, constructive progress in agriculture, we have to put aside self-serving politicking that for so many years has gotten in the way. We turn now to the third phase of Operation Safeguard - full mobilization of the rural development program. This great program, started by President Eisenhower, is one that I look forward to pressing into greater service for low-income farm families. For years on end these families were overlooked in price-support programs. Most unfortunately, we tend to overlook the wide disparity among farm people and to think first of agriculture only in terms of commercial farming, though it accounts for only a small percentage of our farm people. To most of these people, existing price-support programs are a hollow mockery. It is our obligation - and one I feel very deeply - to banish the poverty and lack of opportunity remaining among these people. Those on inadequate farms with either inadequate capital or inadequate know-how require and deserve open-hearted and effective guidance and help from those entrusted with the public good. Through public and private cooperation, governmentally generated, these farmers can learn better farming methods. They can improve their opportunities by being taught other vocational skills. More effective employment services can and should be provided. More full-time and part-time job opportunities can be developed through encouragement of local industrialization. Encouragement of the movement of light industry into these low-income areas is another wholesome undertaking. By all such means, vigorously pursued by a deeply concerned Government, those farm people who might otherwise be forced from the land and the environment they love can have new sources of livelihood and can continue to live in rural America and be an active part of it. This rural development program is a program with a heart. I am determined to realize its full potential. There is in Operation Safeguard this fourth phase - policies that will alleviate the farm cost-price squeeze. As we have seen, it is mainly because of ever-building surpluses that farm prices have lagged. Operation Consume deals directly with this problem, but there is another aspect we must consider. It is that rising farm production costs have continued to press down on net income. The result is the cost-price squeeze, long an agonizing problem for farmers. It has been a hopeful development, these past 8 years, that the cost increases have been but a fraction of what they were during the prior 8 years. But even so, the problem persists, and it is serious. I believe that we need to meet the cost-price squeeze head on. Initially we will seek to improve prices by converting the price-depressing surpluses to manageable proportions through Operation Consume, and also by increasing the farmer's bargaining power through support of producer cooperatives and by going all out to find new markets at home and abroad. Next, we will continue our fight on inflation and thereby help hold farm costs down by keeping America's fiscal house in order. We will also strengthen the various credit facilities, marketing services, and production aids of the Department of Agriculture, thus seeking to hold down the farmer's costs. This specifically includes maintenance of the present interest rates for activities clearly related to the needs of rural areas. The fifth part of Operation Safeguard concerns a crash agricultural research program. Why, you may ask, should we have still more research? The answer is to improve our nutrition, to expand present markets, to find new markets, to determine new industrial and other uses for our farm products, and to reduce production and distribution costs. The value of this research has been proved time and time again. Frozen juice concentrates, for example, have opened whole new markets for citrus growers. I am convinced that what has been accomplished here can be done elsewhere, if we will but relentlessly probe. A sharp increase in the Federal effort for agricultural research is a key element in the undertaking I describe here today, especially research to find new industrial uses for farm products. Sixth, and finally, Operation Safeguard includes this - an assurance of a continuing infusion of practical, new ideas as farming moves forward, by the creation of a council of representative working farmers and ranchers to advise the President on farm programs. This council should be set up by law in order that it will be an official group, selected on a regional basis, its members as nearly as possible representative of all American agriculture. Thus I hope to make certain, in addition to the other measures mentioned here and last week in Iowa, that our farm people will have a more direct voice in planning their affairs. My full support, of course, also goes to the many other programs outlined last July in the Republican platform and to the maintenance and improvement of present services provided by the Department of Agriculture. In summary, the efforts I have outlined here and in Iowa offer our farm families a real chance to move confidently ahead in prosperity and freedom. The twin projects - Operation Consume and Operation Safeguard - point the direction. Fully developed and implemented, I believe that they will make excessive controls and idle surpluses unhappy memories, and farm families can expect to share fully in the promise and opportunity of our free America. I am determined that we make Chairman Khrushchev eat his words. In Pravda he wrote: "If we catch up with the United States in per capita production of meat, butter, and milk, we will fire a powerful torpedo under the foundations of capitalism." I say this: If it is a food torpedo that is to be fired, it is going to be shot by American farmers and ranchers at the foundations of communism. 
Mr. NIXON. Senator Mundt, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this wonderfully patient audience here in South Dakota that I know comes from all over the farm States of America, I want you to know how much I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today and particularly in view of the weather that I understand cannot be blamed on the Republicans because we had it yesterday too. [Laughter.] I know that the conditions under which you will listen to this speech are not the best, but the subject is of vital importance, and I therefore do welcome the opportunity to talk to you as you stand here hopeful that while I am talking you will not suffer too much discomfort. May I say incidentally, I was certainly most pleased and honored to have my good friend, Karl Mundt, introduce me. Everybody in South Dakota knows my personal friendship for him, the fact that we worked together in the House of Representatives and then in the Senate, and since I have become Vice President he has become one of my closest and best advisers not only in the field of agriculture but in other areas; and I am delighted to be with him here on this occasion and with my other colleagues on our party 5 ticket not only from this State but from others as well. May I say, too, that to participate in this great function is one that I consider to be one of the highlights of this campaign, a highlight because as your master of ceremonies said a few moments ago, this is the greatest agricultural function in America. I have had occasion to address it on one previous occasion, and I know how important it is, and how tremendously interesting it is particularly to those from our farm States who have the opportunity to come here to share information on conservation, on the practices which will enable them to be more productive on the farm, the opportunity, too, to have a little fun as I notice from the various facilities that are available for the children and some of the grownups who still like to think we are children, too. Certainly I know when I take my daughters to Disneyland in California I think I spend more time on the various entertainment devices than they do. But for all these things, this particular meeting is one that a candidate for public office feels indeed very honored to be invited to address. Now I know that the primary interest of an audience of this type, particularly on this occasion, is the farm problem, as we have been accustomed to call it, and a solution for that problem. I want to devote the major portion of my remarks today to that subject, just as my opponent devoted the major portion of his remarks to that subject. But I would not want this opportunity to pass without also talking about the other issues which confront the American people in this campaign, not all of them, of course, but at least those that unite all of us regardless of what we may be, whether we are farmers or city folk whether we are wage earners or employees, whether we live in the East or the West or the North or the South. We want a solution, for example, to the farm problem. I happen to think that the program that I will announce today coupled with the one I announced at Guthrie Center, Iowa, last week does provide a solution for it. But while we also want a solution for the farm problem, I find that farmers along with all Americans want to be around to enjoy the solutions that we find for our difficult domestic problems, and I find that in our farm communities as well as in all America wherever you go, from Hawaii in the far, far West to Maine in the East, that the people of America, above everything else want the kind of leadership which will keep the peace without surrender for America, and the world, and extend freedom throughout the world. And on that point, I first want to say that I am proud of the record of the administration of which I am a part. President Eisenhower will conclude his services as President in just a few months. There are many things that I think the American people will be grateful to him for as he finishes 8 years as the Chief Executive of this land. They will be grateful because he has brought such great dignity and integrity and honesty to the highest office in this land, always a splendid example to the children of America. [Applause.] They will be grateful because under his leadership, America has moved for ward economically, so that we are the most productive Nation in the world, with the highest standard of living the people have ever enjoyed in the history of the world. But above everything else, I say, Americans will remember Dwight Eisenhower and be grateful to him because under his leadership he ended one war, we have kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender for America and the world today. [Applause.] I happen to believe that the major responsibility of the next President along with his other responsibilities in the domestic field is to keep the peace and to keep it without surrender. I happen to believe also that the policies and the programs which my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge and I advocate, that those policies and programs can best accomplish that objective and I would like to say in that connection that while time will not permit me to do more than sum them up, that I believe that to keep the peace we must design programs which will take into account the nature of those who threaten the peace, the men in the Kremlin. I think I know those men. I know how they react. I know that you cannot expect them to react as do the leaders of the free world, like President de Gaulle, Prime Minister Nehru, and Prime Minister Macmillan, because they are men determined to conquer the world by any means if necessary without war, if possible. So, therefore, if America is to keep the peace there are certain things we must do. We must be the strongest nation in the world militarily and we must be prepared to keep America that way as she is today. [Applause.] We must be firm in our diplomacy in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev at the conference table, always willing to go an extra mile as President Eisenhower has said, working for disarmament, working for reduction of tension, but again as he has said, never reducing our arms strength until we are sure he is going to do likewise with his. This is what I mean by firm diplomacy that will serve the cause of peace, rather than harm it. And also in this period we must keep the economy of this Nation strong, we must keep it sound, and I will have more to say about that in connection with my discussion of the farm program and, finally, we must keep the moral and spiritual fiber of this country strong, and that means not only our Chief Executive must provide leadership but that the hearts of our people, their minds, their souls, individually must be mobilized to accomplish that objective. I emphasize that for this reason: that will be decisive in the long run, not the military strength of America which is necessary, not our tremendous productivity which is a great advantage, but the fact that America stands for great ideals, our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of man, our belief that the rights that men have for freedom and independence come not from men but from God and therefore they belong to all men as well as to ourselves.  These things you the people of America can do, you can do to strengthen our moral fiber, the belief of our children in those great ideals because they must come from our homes, they must come from our churches, they must come from the schools of America. And so in this case, may I say as I look to the future on this issue of keeping the peace I know it will not be easy, I think it can be done because I think we are on the right side, and we have the strength to see that right prevails and this is what America wants. It is what the world wants in these difficult times. And now if I could turn to the farm problem and if I could relate it as well to the ones that I have just been discussing. First some general things about this problem I would like to say. I have studied it. I would like to say that I grew up on the farm so that I could pose as an expert. As a matter of fact, I did grow up up on a what we call a ranch in California. It was a citrus ranch. I know what it means to dig out a burrow, and hoe weeds out from under the trees. At least that was the case before we learned about conservation and we started to grow cover crops, since then. But it was a rather poor citrus grove and my father left it when I was 10 years of age. So I cannot claim to be an expert even of growing lemons and oranges in California. On the other hand, I think it is the business of anybody running for public office to make himself an expert if he can on great issues. I do not pretend to be one on the farm issue, but I have studied it a lot. I have listened to all kinds of people. I have heard all kinds of arguments. I have found that there just is not one farm program, but there is a farm problem for every crop that is grown and you have to have different solutions for many of them. I have found that many well-intentioned people, believing just as deeply in the interest of the farm as I do and Karl Mundt does, differ on how to solve this problem and the conclusions that I give you today I want to tell you are honest conclusions. They are things that I think will work. I am not going to say a thing here today that I am putting out for the purpose of getting your vote with the idea of forgetting it after election time. Now that is how I begin and so if I may turn [applause] if I should turn to the problem itself, these are the things that I have learned. First, what is wrong about the farm problem in the United States? I suppose you can answer that question better than I. These are the things I would sum up. First, farm income has not shared in the increase in prosperity that Americans have enjoyed, and we must rectify this situation. Some farmers have done reasonably well, but generally speaking on the average, while the rest of the economy, the wage earner, the business people, and the others have moved up, the farmers have not moved up accordingly. So this must be our first objective. How do we get farmers to share in America's growth and in the returns from that growth? The second point that I would make is this: The farm programs that we have shot through with politics are programs which while they cost billions of dollars do not accomplish the objective that we set out to accomplish because instead of shoring up the farm income as they should they have tended to build up surpluses which have depressed prices and depressed farm income.  Third as far as our price-support programs are concerned, we find that they worked inequitably, inequitably because if they are designed to help those that need help they do not do it. I have found in studying the situation that the present price-support laws help the small farmers the least and the most prosperous the most. These are the things that are wrong that I would like to point to. I also want to point to some things that are right about the farm problem in the United States.  The first one is the thing that is right as far as the consumers are concerned. We are the best fed, best clothed people in the world. My wife and I have traveled around this world to 55 countries. I know what it means to see famine. I have seen little children in India, Pakistan, in South America even, with their bellies swollen out because of lack of a proper diet.  I know that, for example, the per capita income in India is one-twentieth of what it is in the poorest State in the United States. And I say that when we consider the farm problem that the American people never forgot that we owe our tremendous prosperity primarily to the fact that our farmers are the most productive that civilization has ever produced. This is a plus.  There is another thing that is a plus. Our farmers' productivity has given us a tremendous advantage in the struggle in which we are engaged. More about that later.  Another thing as far as this farm problem is concerned, is the fact that we are able to produce far more than we can consume in this country means that America has a great weapon for peace, a weapon which can be used not primarily just to fight communism, which is a negative objective, but can be used to fight hunger and misery and disease all over the world, and this helps us, but it is also a great American tradition of concern for those less fortunate than we are, and again our farm productivity makes it possible.  This means that because we are so productive in agriculture we now can for the first time in the history of civilization realize a dream that men have had and never have been able to hope to realize and that is to fight a winning war against misery, against poverty, and that means a better world for all of us all over the world and for our children in the United States.  And so you see when we look at the problem that way we see the opportunities in it, and I want to say as Karl Mundt already implied in his remarks that I do not look at this as a hopeless problem. I look at it as one of the greatest opportunities the next Chief Executive of this country has. I look at it as an exciting challenge.  I say what we have to do is not develop a program that will fasten before the farmers from time on out, controls directed from Washington, D.C. I say that the thing we want to do is make an asset out of our productivity. We should look as to how we can expand our markets and expand our consumption, so that we can have not only high prices but also full production on the farm. This is the way to make an asset out of America's tremendous productivity. [Applause.] Now, there is another point that I would make. How do we accomplish this? First, when we examine our problem it is very simple to summarize it. We produce more than we can consume. Now, the question is how do you get consumption into balance with production? One way of course is to increase consumption. Another way is reduce production. Both of these devices had to be used to a certain extent in a transition period. But, on the other hand, what we must bear in mind is this: How did we get in this present situation, and this is fundamental for the American people, particularly, to remember. We got into this situation not because of some fault of America's farmers, but because of what the Government asked the farmers to do. The Government adopted programs to stimulate the farmers to produce more to meet the needs of war. We still have such programs and so the surpluses are a result of farmers relying on what the Government told them to do. Now, in getting rid of surpluses and getting them off the back of the farmers, if the Government is responsible for getting the farmer into this predicament the Government must share and bear the cost of getting him out of this predicament. In other words, we cannot have a farm program which, in getting rid of the surpluses, does it by bankrupting America's farmers. We cannot have the program that, in other words, makes the farmer pay the cost for reducing the surpluses to manageable proportion. That in a nutshell is the substance of my thinking on the problem. Now, if I could go from there how do we do this? How do we accomplish this transition from a situation where we have too much production for the markets that we have and too little consumption? Well, we have to work at both ends of the pipeline. I worked at the other end of the pipeline or at least talked at it and the one I am going to speak at today, at my speech at Guthrie Center. I developed a program that I call "Operation Consume." That is, how do we increase consumption? And there were four points I made there. I will summarize them briefly. One, we will expand the food for peace program. Two, create a strategic food reserve. We will use payments in kind from our surpluses to help expand land conservation. And, finally, a new program - and I ask you to study it, consider it, because I believe it has great possibilities - a new program of converting grain to protein foods, like beef, chickens, et cetera, for sale overseas and for distribution to the needy at home and abroad. That is the essence of the program designed to reduce the surpluses and I have set as a target date for getting our surpluses into manageable proportions, a period of 4 years and I have indicated that in financing this program we should be prepared to pay more now in order to reduce the costs later. Let us go at it in an imaginative way, in a bold way, because our trouble in the past is that we have been too timid, in my opinion, in attempting to strike at this problem. Now that was "Operation Consume." "Operation Safeguard" I want to talk about today, and that is designed to keep us from accumulating more surpluses at the time that we are reducing them over here. Now, what does "Operation Safeguard" do? First, it involves a substantial expansion of the conservation reserve program on a temporary basis to help adjust production to our Nation's needs. Why should it be temporary? Because as population expands in America, and the world as well, we in the future are going to need every last acre we can find. Look for a moment what is going to happen to population in this country. In 10 years we will have 20 to 30 million more people to feed than we have now. In 20 years we will have 50 to 90 million more people to feed than we have now. So, therefore, America's farmers can look forward to a period when we will need every acre that we have into production. But as of now acres that add to our excess production can be voluntarily retired with fair rentals for a period of 3 to 10 years. Now there is an added advantage. The conservation reserve amounts to a form of income insurance as well as constituting voluntary production control by the farmer himself. Now, in expanding the conservation reserve there are difficulties that we must carefully avoid. These difficulties, incidentally, I have discussed at length with Karl Mundt, other Senators from this area, and Congressmen, and these are the guidelines that I lay down and I ask you to listen to them very carefully. It is imperative that this program be wisely administered and that means better administered than it has been in the past. These things must be done. First, we've got to have good conservation practices on the rented land. Conservation practices such as this great meeting here today are served to promote. Second, it is self-defeating if in this program we shift only marginal land, grass, and trees. And third in administering the conservation reserve program, we must avoid injury to the economies of local communities as acres go out of production. That is why a primary objective in administering the program must be not to take the whole farms out of production. Now, so much for the conservation reserves. A second string to our bow of Operation Safeguard is an effective system of price supports. Now, I realize that this is a very controversial subject and you know better than I how complex it is. It would be very easy for me to stand up here and say that my opponent suggests 120 percent and 125, I raise him 150 percent, but you would know that I could not produce. You would also know that I should not produce in your own best interests on such a promise as that. I want to tell you something today about a price support program that will work, one that I think the country will support, one that will meet these problems and meet it effectively. The challenge we have here is to find a way intelligently to help the farmers in this field. Now, our price support program. I know that many farmers have written to me and that they have talked about the fact that they want to reach the time when they can make their own decision as to what to plant and where they can sell their output profitably through the normal channels of trade and not to Government.  In other words, many farmers have said: "What we want is to work toward a program of freedom from controls, get away from all this Federal Government activity as far as our farm programs are concerned." Let me say this: I believe that is a good objective. It is one toward which we should work. But let us remember this: We cannot move from where we are with a system of price supports and a system of controls to where we want to go in a single step. In this transition period, while we are cutting down the price-depressing surplus that overhangs the market and bringing agriculture into better balance, we have to have a program that will protect farm income and see that the farmer is not harmed in this period. Thereafter, after we get the surpluses reduced to manageable proportion, then the farmers can regain their freedom to grow what they wish for markets, free of burden of accumulated stocks on the economy. Let us say this is the transition period. While we are still working on the surpluses what should we do with regard to the price-support program? We have to make a special effort to bring current output and consumption more nearly into balance in that period. For that purpose it will be necessary to legislate a temporary cutback in agriculture allotment of any price-supported crop which is so heavily in surplus as to bring injury to those who farm the crop. Wheat is a good example. I would have the land thus withdrawn from production administered as part of the conservation reserve program. But - and this is the important point to bear in mind - during this period of transition, farm income must be protected. How do we do that? We can accomplish this objective, I believe, through a program of favorable payment in kind which can be used to help compensate farmers for the mandatory cut in acres and thus we avoid in the transition period harmful adjustments in price-support levels, and this I believe is a workable program, and there are two extremes that I will describe in a moment. By these actions, farmer income and markets as well can be protected through the transition years. Once we deal with the surpluses, once markets achieve a new buoyance reflecting a better relationship of supply and demand, we should move to a long-term price-support system with levels based on average market prices over the immediately preceding crop year. But we cannot move to that, I say, until we get the surpluses off the backs of the farmers and off the backs of the market. Let me put it this way: I think we have seen two extremes in our approach to this whole problem, particularly where a congressional deadlock is concerned. On the one hand, there are those who insist that we've got to move to a free market and toward more normal conditions at a speed and by means that would fail adequately to protect farm income in a period of transition. I am against that kind of a move. On the other hand, we have those who insist on purely political programs that would stunt our market, add to the surpluses and in addition, require almost day-to-day control by the Federal Government. I do not think either extreme makes sense. That is why I have proposed a realistic forward-looking way that will deal with the surpluses, protect farm income during the transition period and will move toward freedom once we get the surpluses off the farmers' backs. Now let me turn to the third phase of Operation Safeguard. Full mobilization of the rural development program. This is a splendid program started by President Eisenhower. It is one that I look forward to pressing into greater service for low-income farm families. Those on inadequate farms with either inadequate capital or inadequate know-how require and deserve the open-hearted and effective guidance and help from those entrusted with the public good. And by all means possible, vigorously pursued by a deeply concerned Government, those farm people who might otherwise be forced from the land and the environment that they love can have new sources of livelihood. They can continue to live in rural America, and they can continue to be an active part of it. This program which I have seen in operation in various States is one that is very close to my heart. I am determined to realize its full potential. The fourth phase, the cost-price squeeze--- (At this point the tape apparently was changed on the recorder and this part of Mr. Nixon's speech was not included.) The reason for research is obvious. It improves nutrition, we expand markets, we find new markets, and we find new industrial and other uses for our farm products, and we reduce production and distribution costs. And, finally, my sixth point is this. We have to find a new practical way in which farmers themselves participate in advising and directing the programs that we have in this field. That is why I believe we should set up a council of representatives of working farmers and ranchers to advise the President. It should be set up by law in order that it will be an official group. It should be selected on a regional basis and its members as nearly as possible should represent all of American agriculture. Now, in summary, the efforts as I have outlined here and the ones that I outlined in Iowa a week ago, I believe, offer a real chance to move confidently ahead in prosperity and freedom for America's farmers, and I want to ask you to do this. I ask you to read what I have said, in both places, study it and if you are convinced that this is the best solution, then on that basis I can, and only on that basis, ask for your support. These two projects "Operation Consume" and "Operation Safeguard" will make excessive controls and idle surpluses unhappy memories and farm families can expect to share fully in the promise and opportunity of a free America. [Applause.] Chairman Khrushchev just recently, in Pravda, wrote these words: He said:  If we catch up with the United States in per capita production of meat, butter, and milk, we will fire a powerful torpedo under the foundations of capitalism. This is my answer and the answer of the farmers of America to Mr. Khrushchev, while he is on American soil. If a food torpedo is to be fired, it is going to be fired by American farmers at the very foundations of communism throughout the world. Thank you. [Applause.) ANNOUNCER: You have just heard an address by the Vice President of the United States, Mr. Richard Nixon and the address took place at the National Plowing Contest site near Sioux Falls.
 Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. Pat and I are very honored to be here at this breakfast of candidates and party officials this morning. I suppose that many of you must wonder that after most of you, I assume, were present last night and heard me talk for about 30 minutes, well, what's left to say? And that is, of course, always the problem when you have two or three meetings with the same group of people sometime coming to attend them all. I did, however, have some things to say to this group that were particularly concerned about your problems and about our party. And I would like to say just a word now, if I could, in regard to the prospects for the party, not only here in Kansas, but also across the line in Missouri and all over the country for that matter. First of all, I have a very strong feeling about the responsibility of the national leaders of the party to build a party up and down the line. It is very easy, in a national campaign, to fail to recognize that you can't have, in the final analysis, a strong national party without having a strong local party. [Applause.] Now I think we Republicans have been doing a lot of soul-searching lately as to what has happened to our party at the local and the State levels. It depends on the State if we are to analyze it accurately, but I would say as we look at the situation all over the country, if we were to find general features to comment upon, they would go along these lines. After we won our great victory in 1952, there was a tendency at the local and the State level to coast, to an extent. To coast in the sense that we had a tremendously popular President in the White House and it was, I think, rather thought that in the congressional elections and in the various elections with that President at the top of that ticket, that we would do reasonably well. Our Democratic opponents, on the other hand, after that shattering defeat for them in 1952, proceeded to emphasize, not the national, but the local. And so they began to - and I've looked at this State by State and studied it - they began to organize right down at the local level the offices for the State legislature, particularly they concentrated on, then for the Congress, then for the Senate, then for the governorship, and now, finally, they are shooting for the big prize itself. Let me give you an example. The first real warning signs for us Republicans occurred in 1954. In 1954, we did not suffer a defeat that was too significant except from the fact that the small balance that we had as a majority in the Senate and the House shifted to minority, but it was not too significant a defeat in that year. We came out of that election with about 200 Congressmen. We came out of it only with a minority of one or two in the Senate. But, when you look beneath those figures to the local level, what do you find? You found that that year, 1954, the Democrats picked up 505 seats for State legislatures around the country; we picked up 5. And so that was the thing that certainly should have warned us to what was coming. Now the reason I am encouraged about the future of our party now is that the situation, after the 1958 election, is reversed. All over the country, I find party leaders concentrating not simply on finding good candidates for the House and the Senate, which they naturally would in supporting the candidate for President, but recognizing that we simply have to put emphasis on the State legislature and whenever, of course, there are partisan races for country and city and the like, to put emphasis there as well. And so, my word to you is this: One of appreciation for doing that here in the State of Kansas and, too, the suggestion that nationally this is what we must do up and down the line. It's a question of candidates, it's a question of organization, and it's a question of emphasis up and down the line. Its a question of doing what I saw last night in that meeting. And, incidentally, I have seen it all over the country, but certainly no place better than in Kansas. The way that you brought in these future candidates and party leaders right down there in front - these college students and high school students - giving them the opportunity to participate because as we bring these people in and give them the opportunity, they, of course, provide the people who will be candidates for these offices which some other people, who are older, cannot afford the risk of running for office because of their other responsibilities at that point, they can be candidates and, also, they can be very effective party workers. So I congratulate the people in the State of Kansas in your leadership for what you've done, for the fact that you've got such a splendid group of people here as candidates supporting your national ticket, supporting Andy Schoeppel running for the Senate, and the fact that you also have - you are going all out for the governorship and for the State legislature as well. This is the key to the future as far as we are concerned. Now, there is one other point that I would make and it's this. When we look at what happened to the Republican Party in this period of 1954, 1956, and 1958 in those elections, we found a considerable erosion in the farm belt. In every one of those elections, not only in the vote for the House and the Senate, but also in the vote for State legislatures and for Governors, we found Republican support going down. Why was this? Well, I think looking at it very realistically, it was the case of the traditionally oriented Republican farmer looking at this insoluble, or apparently insoluble farm problem, and naturally voting, as is the tendency of an individual when he sees a problem without an immediate solution, simply voting against whoever is in. Now, on the farm problem, I just want to say this. I think that this time, this year, and I make this prediction to this group, we're going to see a tremendous resurgence of Republican strength among the farmers throughout this country and we want you to work on it. [Applause.] And I say that for a number of reasons, but I say that first, because when you compare the farm programs that I announced in two speeches, one at Guthrie's center, the other yesterday in Sioux Falls, with the farm program that our opponents announced at Sioux Falls, believe me the American farmers aren't going to be fooled. They are not going to be fooled because if I can describe their farm program in a nutshell, it is this. They are, in effect, saying to the American farmer, they are saying to him: Sell us your birthright for a mess of pottage. And what I mean by that is that they promise everything insofar as what they are going to do for the farmer, but in essence the net result of their program would be that in order to keep their farmers, they would have to cut his acreage to the bone, they would have to impose upon him iron control and that not on a temporary basis, but on a long-range basis, and as the farmer looks at it, he will know what it is and as he sees our program he will see an alternative. I haven't the time to describe ours but I would just like to say a word about it. It is different from the present administration program. It is different because I have given a tremendous amount of study to this problem, I've got some very good people working with me. It is different in the means that we use to reach goals that I think all Americans want - what the American farmer wants, what the American people want. Of course, the ideal situation would be to work toward the time when farmers can have freedom to plant, and to sell, to market their products without interference from Washington, D.C. On the other hand, the American farmers are very well aware of the fact that if we jump immediately to that point when tremendous surpluses overhang the markets, we are going to go there at the cost of bankrupting literally thousands of American farmers. Now, it has been my theory for a long time, and it is my theory now, and it is the one that is the very heart of my farm program, that the reason we have farm surpluses today where we do have them is not the fault of the farmer. The farmer was only doing what his Government told him to do. During the war, we had programs that stimulated the farmer to bring in extra acreage, stimulated him to be more productive so that we could have the products that we need. And then we continued these same programs after the war. My point is that if the Government was responsible, primarily, for these surpluses which are on the farmers back which depress the prices, if the Government was responsible for putting the farmer where he is, the Government must bear the primary responsibility for getting him out of the hole that he is in, and until the burden of surpluses is taken off the back of the farmer, until the burden of the surpluses is taken off the back of the market, until that is achieved we cannot say to the farmer: Look, you go out and sink or swim without any assistance from the Government to keep your income from falling. So, my program in a nutshell is this - twofold. One, we're going to make an attack on the surplus problem which is designed to get it off the back of the farmers and the taxpayers and the economy of this country. It is a program I won't analyze in detail, but I can tell you that it has several new features. I think it will work. I think that we can set and reach the goal that I have set - a period of 4 years in which to achieve that objective. Now during that 4-year period, the other side of the program which I announced in South Dakota was one in which we will have Government policies which will see to it that farm income in that period does not fall. Now, let's look at this. Some people say: Well, isn't this going to cost some money? The answer is yes. It's going to cost money particularly during the period that we're getting these surpluses down to manageable proportions, but in the long range it costs less because the trouble is that as long as we have the surpluses, we have storage costs, we have everything else and the point is, I say, let's get rid of them and get rid of these costs so that we can eventually reach the point, and the quicker the better, where we are not putting out these tremendous amounts of money in order to handle them. Now, this, of course, is not a farm audience, but you talk to farm people. I wanted to summarize it to this extent. I want to say that I honestly believe our program will work, where theirs won't. I believe that our program gives the farmer hope, which he feels in many instances he has not had and with that hope, the hope of seeing an end to his problems a chance to move up with the rest of the economy in America's increasing prosperity - and, incidentally, this isn't the case of all farmers, some have done reasonably well - but I'm speaking of those where the prices have been depressed, giving him the hope that he is going to move up, that the Government is going to do the things that need to be done to help him to move up. In fact, making it clear to the American farmer that the Republican Party through the years and is now, the best friend the farmer has. As we get this point across, we're going to bring the farmers back into our party in Kansas and Missouri, in all this great Farm Belt, and that could mean the election this year in 1960. [Applause.] Well, here I've gone and made another farm speech [laughter], but I just want to say, finally, this: As I look around the room and see so many people that are candidates, I know that you will be going through the same problems that Pat and I have gone through in many years. Campaigning is not easy; it's particularly hard on the wives. They have to hear you make that same speech all the time and look as if it is new [laughter], and campaigning is certainly something that takes a lot out of you physically, a lot out of you mentally, as well, and when you are through you are completely, exhausted, as you know, and you are so exhausted that you were looking forward to relaxing and then you're not able to do it. But be that as it may, there is also something very inspiring about it, and there is also something very humbling about it. To go into cities like this; to see, literally, thousands of people who are placing, in effect, their trust in your judgment, their hopes in the future for themselves and their children in you, it makes you realize what a tremendous responsibility you have. I would be the last to be so presumptuous to say that I could fulfill that responsibility, but when people sometimes say: Why can't we get rid of this campaigning? Why can't we do it all by television so we can save our candidates the physical and the mental stress - and it could be done by television? I could make a speech from Washington and hit 40 million people in a half hour with preparation for 3 or 4 days, which is more than I would talk to in the course of a period of 8 weeks, live, in the course of this campaign. The answer is this: A campaign is good for the country but it also is good for the candidate. He gets the feel of the country. He gets the feel of the people. He sees farmers and wage earners and children and teachers and religious leaders and others. He knows the fiber of America as he moves around and also he realizes, over and over again, what a tremendous responsibility we have. Our National leaders, our State leaders, our Senators, our Congressmen, our legislature members, city councilmen, the thing they must avoid above everything else is to get too big for the people, to get away from people [applause] and that's one of the reasons why, even when I'm pretty tired at night, or a little grouchy in the morning when I get up after too little sleep, that I know that a campaign is necessary, that it serves a good purpose and I particularly feel so as I look out here and see all those Kansas sunflowers, shining on Missouri, as well as Kansas, with the hope that we're going to pick up both of these States in this election. [Applause.] Thank you.
Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, all the distinguished guests on this platform and also the man who has just introduced me so eloquently, Mr. Emmerich: I can only say that to see this vast throng standing here in the sunlight, willing to listen to one of the candidates for the Presidency is, indeed, for me and for Pat, a very humbling experience. We appreciate your taking the time on a Saturday afternoon when I'm sure there are some pretty good football games on the radio and the television and the like that you may be looking at or listening to or other things that you might be doing, to come out and welcome us, as you have, to Jackson. May I say to the man who just introduced me so eloquently I'm very honored by the fact that he was the first editor in the South to endorse me for President of the United States, and I thank him for that. I noted, as you did, his reference to the fact that this was the first time in a century that a candidate of either the Republican or the Democratic Party had come to Mississippi. I want you to know that I don't think it ought to be the last time in a hundred years, if that should happen, for either the Republican or Democratic candidates to come to Mississippi. I don't think it's a good thing that in the case of Mississippi, as well as in some of the neighboring States, the Democratic Party takes the people here for granted and the Republican Party concedes them to the other party. I think that situation ought to change. That's one of the reasons that I am very happy to be here on the platform with my colleagues who are members of my party who are trying to give the people of this State a choice in their election campaigns. That's one of the reasons, too, I am very honored that on this platform are also members of the Democratic Party, people who are thinking of the future of the Nation and the future of this State and thinking not simply in partisan terms, but thinking in terms, when we elect a President, of what is best for America. May I say to you, my friends here, and to all of you listening on radio and on television, that it has been the tradition of the American people when we elect a President of the United States to think of the country first, the party second, and I present the case for our ticket on those grounds to the people of Mississippi and to the people of the South who are listening by television to this program today. Now, I realize that in this audience are some Republicans. I realize that in this audience are some independent voters, and I realize that in this audience are some Democrats, May I say that in speaking to you I want to direct my remarks to all of you - Republicans, Democrats, independent voters - and I particularly want to speak at this point to those who may be members of the Democratic Party and who have the problem of wondering what you can do in this election campaign insofar as supporting a candidate for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency who is not a member of your party. I know that you will hear it said over and over again that a Democrat can't vote for a Republican candidate for President because if he did so he would not be loyal to his party. My answer is this: My answer first is that the country comes before the party. My answer second is that those who wrote the platform of the Democratic Party at Los Angeles forfeited the right to ask for millions of Democrats to vote for them and to be loyal to their party. I say, further, that if you read the platform of our party, the Republican Party, adopted at Chicago, if you compare it with the platform of the Democratic Party adopted in Los Angeles, you will conclude, I am sure, those of you who are Democrats, that what we stand for is closer to what you stand for than that which was adopted at Los Angeles. Putting it another way, my friends, I say that the party of those who apparently were writing the platform and directing much of the strategy and the braintrusting for the Democratic candidates in this area, the party of Schlesinger and Galbraith and Bowles is not the party of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson. I might say I don't believe that that party is the party of Jackson, Miss., either. So, today, to present this case to you, I want to tell you what I believe. I'm going to tell you what I stand for. I want to tell you what my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, believes in, what we stand for, and then I ask all of you, whatever you are - Republicans, Democrats, or independents - to decide on the basis of what we stand for. Does what we stand for - is that closer to your views than the other party? Does what we stand for - is this better for America than what they stand for? I want to begin, incidentally, with a very difficult issue. It is one in which you will find that what our party stands for and what our candidates stand for is not in agreement with what many of you in this audience will stand for. I refer to the issue referred to by Mr. Emmerich in his introduction, the issue of civil rights. I know that all of you are aware, all of you who saw our convention in Chicago, of my deep convictions on this issue. I know that you are aware that those convictions are ones that grow out of my experience and my background and that there are many reasons that I feel as I do about it. I would like to say on that issue today that it would not be appropriate for me to come before an audience like this and talk one way in the South and another way in the North. A presidential candidate should say what he believes in all parts of the country, and I do that today to you. I want to say as far as that issue is concerned, I know that it is difficult. I know that it is complex. I know, too, that it is not just an issue for the South. It is one for the North. It is one for the West. It is one for the East. All Americans, as they speak of this issue, must look to their own house before they point the finger at people in some other part of the country to look to their house as well. But, my friends, may I just make this one suggestion to you: We saw America represented at its eloquent and magnificent best by President Eisenhower at the United Nations just 2 days ago. We saw the opponents of America and the opponents of freedom represented, as we might expect, by Mr. Khrushchev. I don't think there's any question where the verdict of the peoples of the world will be. It will be on the side of the man who really stands for peace and for freedom for all people - President Eisenhower; but, my friends, if you read Mr. Khrushchev's speech you will note that he did what he has often done before. He pointed the finger at the United States and said that we preach one thing abroad as far as recognition of equality of opportunity and practice something else at home. I say that one reason that we in this country on this issue must continue to work for progress on it is that we must not allow this man, who has enslaved millions of people, who has slaughtered thousands, to point the finger at the United States of America in this area or any other. So, on that issue may I say, while you may not agree with my convictions, with my position, I know that you will respect it for the reasons that I hold it and I present it to you today in that spirit. Now, may I turn to the other issues where the difference is clearly drawn. Why did I say at the outset that the Democratic Party in their platform at Los Angeles, in effect forfeited the right to ask for the support of millions of Democrats in this country. I'll tell you why. Because in the programs that they adopted for economic progress in this country they violated the precepts for which the Democratic Party and the Republican Party, for that matter, has always stood. Let me tell you what I believe in this respect. I want, as you want, progress for America. I know of the tremendous progress of this city, and the mayor was telling me in the period of 12 years that he has been mayor you have had practically a doubling in population. Where has that progress come from?. That progress has come not primarily from government, but it has come from the activities of hundreds of thousands of individual Mississippians given an opportunity to develop their own lives. I want for this country and I want for the people of this State, for the people of all of our States, the kind of government in which we can have better jobs, better housing, better schools, better medical care. All these things I want. What is the difference as far as our opponents are concerned? They want the same things, but the difference in the means is the significant thing. They say the way to get the jobs and the schools and the housing and all the things that spell progress for America is to turn first to Washington and the Federal Government and to work down to the people. We say the way to progress in America is not to start with Washington, but to start with the people first and work up to Washington and go there last. We say that the way to progress in this country is not to weaken the power of our States and our local governments, but to strengthen the power of our local and our State governments throughout this country. We say the way to progress is not through expanding the size of the Federal Government in its functions, except where that is necessary and where the job cannot otherwise be done, but that it is through expanding opportunities for 180 million free Americans. I say to you today that, as you consider what we stand for, my friends, as you consider what our opponents stand for, we have the secret for progress, and they do not have it. I say that what we stand for is in the great traditions of Jefferson, of Jackson, of Wilson, as well as the great traditions of the Republican Party, which I represent today. So, on this issue, I say: Consider it. Consider where I stand, what I believe, where our opponents stand, and then if you believe our way is the best way to a bright future, then we ask for your support on that issue. Now may I turn to a third issue - and, incidentally, this is more important than all the rest. The man who introduced me already implied that. I would like to spell it out in this way. I'm sure that some might well say, "Now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. What could be more important than a good job? What could be more important than good schools? What could be more important than adequate medical care; all these things I have described?" My answer, of course: What could be more important than a good job and good schools and good medical care and progress in all those fields is being around to enjoy them. So, I say to you today that the primary test that you should apply in determining which candidate for the President and Vice President to vote for is this: Which of the candidates, by experience, by background and on his program, can best keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? This is the great issue of our times. Now, I want to present our credentials on that issue. First, we have a record, a record of which we are proud. There are many things that I think the people of America will be grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for. They will be grateful to him because he brought such tremendous dignity and stature to the highest office of this land, the Presidency of the United States. They will be primarily grateful to him because this man, such a great leader in war, is a man who has been a partisan of peace. He is a man who has ended one war, has kept the United States out of other wars and who has given us peace without surrender today - and America will forever be grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for that accomplishment. I am proud of that record. My colleague, Cabot Lodge, is proud of it, and we present it to you today; but we do not stand on it, because a record is never something to stand on, but something to build on. Let me go now to experience. I should not and will not talk about my own experience. That is for you to judge, but I can talk about my running mate's, and I will say this about him: In the 7½ years that he has been at the United Nations I don't think that any man in the world could have had more experience and could have done a better job than he has done standing for the cause of peace and freedom - Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President.  I pledge to you today that he will be a working Vice President. He will be a partner with me, working in strengthening the instruments of peace, working in carrying out the great policies that President Eisenhower spoke about in his speech at the United Nations on Thursday, and together we will devote our best efforts not only to holding the line so that we can hold our freedom, but to extending freedom, because we must remember that in this world of change in which we live it is not enough to stand pat. We must constantly move forward and extend freedom and the cause of peace through - out the world - and this we pledge that we shall do.  Now may I turn to how we plan to accomplish that.  What must America do to keep the peace? What must we do to extend freedom?  First, in view of the kind of men that we are dealing with, my friends, America, above everything else, to begin with, must be stronger militarily than any nation in the world - and I pledge to you we will keep America's preeminent position in this field.  I also say that we must ask the American people to pay whatever is necessary to see that we retain that position.  Why? Because with our strength we keep potential enemies of peace and freedom from ever gambling on using their strength.  So, strength militarily is the first essential.  Also, we must keep the economy of this country strong and sound and productive and free, and on this point I say we can and we will do a more effective job than our opponents.  There is a third area I would like to mention. It is one that may not have occurred to you, but in the final analysis it will prove to be more decisive than even our great military strength and our great economic strength. It is the kind of strength represented by the invocation which we just heard.  Let me tell you what I mean. When Pat and I visited the Soviet Union, we stopped in Poland on the way back. There was no notice of when we were to arrive in Warsaw, it was not a Saturday afternoon, but a Sunday afternoon. When we arrived in the streets of that city, we expected no crowds; but, you know, in a totalitarian country the word goes around by word of mouth, and, as a result, there were over a quarter of a million people on the streets that day. They were enthusiastic, like this great crowd. But it was more than that. They were throwing flowers into our car, hundreds of bouquets. They were crying, many of them, with tears coming down their cheeks, tears of joy. They were singing, and they were shouting at the top of their voices, "Niech Zyje America - long live America."  Why were they saying this? Not because we were famous, because we were not, as President Eisenhower would have been. Not because America was strong militarily and economically, because Khrushchev had been there representing strength that he claimed was as great, and they had not cheered like this. No. They cheered because they knew that America stands for more than military strength more than economic strength, that we stand for moral and spiritual strength, for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago - still live in the hearts of Americans and still are the hope of all the world.  I say to you today, my friends, this strength must be maintained if any President is going to lead this Nation and our allies in the cause of peace and freedom, and it can only be maintained with your help, because the strength, the moral and spiritual fiber of a country, our faith in God, our recognition of the dignity of man, our recognition that the rights of men come from God, our recognition of freedom, not only for ourselves, but for people everywhere, must come from the home, the church, from the school - and I know that you will not fail America in keeping the moral and spiritual fiber and the flaming idealism of America strong in these years ahead in the great battle in which we are engaged. To those who question the power of this kind of strength, may I say that the materialists and the militarists have always underestimated the power of ideas, but ideas, but ideas have always prevailed. And now to my last point: Are we going to win this struggle in the world for peace, for freedom? What about the criticisms that we've heard of our strength? What about the talk that we've heard to the effect that American prestige is at an all-time low? All that I can say is this: That I think we've really had too many naive comments that seem to believe that the greater the Communist hostility, the lower the prestige of our country. The Communists run a riot in Tokyo. We blame it not on them, but on ourselves and on our friends, the Japanese. They run one in Caracas. We blame it not on the Communists, but on ourselves and on our friends, the great majority of the Venezuelan people. All I can say is this, my friends, as far as American prestige is concerned: They pay off on the score, and that's true in football, baseball, and it's true in international relations. We had a pretty good test the other day in the United Nations, and the score was pretty good, too. I noted here that Ole Miss won its first game of the season 42 to 0. The Governor and the mayor told me they expected to go through and be No.1 this season. Now, that's a pretty good score, but you know what happened the other day in the United Nations? There was a vote on the Congo in which the United States said we must work through the United Nations and we must not have any nation work unilaterally in this particular area, and on that vote the Soviet Union was against us. The United States was supporting the other position. The score was 70 to 0 on behalf of the United States of America. I say that that is the best answer to those who say that American prestige is low around the world. When the chips are down, our friends stand with us. So, in this whole area might I suggest in a political campaign we need criticism of those things that are wrong, but we must not allow that criticism to obscure the greatness of America. This is a country that is not wallowing in indecision. It isn't facing retreat. It isn't losing respect of our friends around the world. I believe that the charge that America's prestige in the world has been impaired, that it's lowered or declining, is absurd; I think it's irresponsible. I believe it's bad for the country abroad - and, my friends, I say that those who make that charge will find it unrewarding at home, here in America as well, because, you see, as we dwell continuously on America's shortcomings, we serve to shake our friends' confidence in us and to undercut our confidence in ourselves. Just putting it in a nutshell, I say it isn't necessary to run America down in order to build America up. Now may I conclude with this thought: Obviously, time has not permitted me to discuss all of the issues in which you are interested. I have appreciated your patience, your coming in the first place, your listening, as you have, and I want to urge each and every one of you to consider what I have said, to consider the things that I believe in, to consider the record, my own record, as well as the record of my colleague, compare them with the records of our opponents and then, my friends, I say: If you believe what we stand for, what we will do, can best meet the great challenges of leadership for America in the sixties, if you believe that what we stand for will best have the opportunity to keep the peace without surrender, if you believe that we can best lead the forces of freedom to victory in this struggle with communism, without war, then I ask for your support. I ask for your support not as just Republicans or as Democrats, but as Americans. I say to you, if you believe as we believe, won't you go out and carry this message throughout the State of Mississippi, carry it to the people of this State? I know this is a hard State to win for a Republican candidate, but I happen to believe that what I stand for, what my colleague stands for, is bigger than the Republican Party. I think it is as big as America itself, and on that basis we ask for the support not only of Republicans, but of Democrats in this great State of Mississippi. We thank you for coming out and giving us the opportunity to talk to you.
I want to say right here at the outset that I recognize that in this State, as in virtually all of the States of the South, if we were to count simply on the Republicans, those who are registered Republicans, to vote for us we wouldn't have a chance. I realize that the reason that President Eisenhower carried Louisiana in 1956 was that thousands of Louisiana Democrats put their country first and their party second and elected the best man for the job. I believe that in Louisiana along with other States in the South and even in the North, this is very healthy, that there is beginning to develop a two-party system, and I want to give every support to that that I possibly can. Today I want to direct my remarks not only to the Republicans who may be here. I want to direct them particularly to the Democrats who are here, and in directing them to the Democrats, I'm going to do it in this way: It seems to me that when we elect a President of the United States the standards that we apply are quite different from those that we usually apply to local office. When we elect a President, the history of America has been that sometimes we have elected Republicans, sometimes Democrats, and that some of our great Presidents have been Democrats, some have been Republicans. Why has this been the case? Because the American people realize that where leadership of America is concerned, leadership of the whole free world, it is essential not to think simply narrowly in terms of party labels or personalities, but to think in terms of the Nation itself, of what the men stand for rather than the label they happen to wear, what is beneath that label, what really do they believe, and it is that point that I want to discuss with you. To all of you, to Republicans, to Democrats, to independent voters in this audience, I say: Will you listen to me today, listen to what I stand for, and then make up your minds that whether what I believe is what you believe or whether what I believe is closer to what you believe than what my opponent believes.  Now, of course, I realize a good lot of my Democratic friends here will say, "Now, just a moment, Mr. Nixon. You are suggesting we not be loyal to our party." I have an answer to that. I say that those who adopted the Democratic platform in Los Angeles at their convention forfeited the right to ask thousands of Democrats, millions of them, in this country to be loyal to their party and to vote the Democratic ticket this year. I say further that what we adopted in our platform in Chicago is closer to the views of Democrats in not only the South, but in California, where there are many more Democrats than Republicans, incidentally. It is closer to the views of those Democrats than is the case of the platform the Democratic Party adopted in Los Angeles. Now, to that point, then, I wish to speak and, in speaking to it, may I say, incidentally, that a platform to me means something. I am sure it also means something to my opponent. I consider him to be a man of honor. I consider him to be a man who meant what he said when he stood before his convention and said, "I endorse the platform and I intend to carry it out." I think he would resent as much as anybody in this audience would resent the statement of his chairman in this State to the effect that he had been assured that on one issue, on oil depletion, that Mr. Kennedy's position was not in agreement with the Democratic platform. I want to tell you what I think about that issue. I am for the current oil-depletion allowance because I think it is the way to build America. From reading the Democratic platform, I think it is against it; but I say this: If Senator Kennedy is against it, if Senator Johnson is against it, they ought to come to Louisiana and Texas and tell them they're against it or that they're for it, one way or the other. Now, let me turn to what I believe and what our platform stands for. There are things in our platform that many in this audience will not approve. I know that. You remember some of our delegates to the convention from Louisiana didn't like it a bit and they used their time-honored right to stand on their two feet and say so at the convention. I want to talk about one of those issues right at the outset. It is the very difficult issue of civil rights. In talking about that issue, I talk about it as one who has deep convictions on it, as you know, and I believe in talking the same in the North, in the South and the East and the West . The people are entitled to have that from a candidate for the Presidency of the United States. As I look at that issue, I believe that we must move forward to make progress. I believe that it is not just a southern problem. I have been in the North and the East and the West. It's a problem there, too, and all of us must work together to make progress in providing equality of opportunity for all Americans. There are many reasons, my friends, why this must be done, but we had an eloquent reason yesterday. To have Mr. Khrushchev come to the United States and to have this man, who has enslaved millions and who has slaughtered thousands, point the finger at the United States and say we were doing wrong in mistreating people in this country certainly gives us a reason then to move forward on this issue so that we do not give to the Communist leaders any arguments against America and what she stands for around the world. I know that it is difficult, but I pledge to you that in this field we will make progress and that men and women of good will, working together, can solve this along with the other difficult problems with which we are confronted.  Point 2: Speaking of what I believe in, I think it is tremendously important that a candidate for the Presidency particularly make it clear that he, if he is elected, is going to be President of all the people.  I will not and I cannot go before a labor organization and say I'm 100 percent for everything they're for and I am going to do what they say when we get in.  I will not and I cannot go before, as I did yesterday, a farm organization and say, "I'm going to be for everything that you want when I get in."  I will not do that for a business organization. I won't do it for any organization because the President cannot belong to any group in the country. He's got to belong to all the American people and be able to represent all the American people.  Now, there are some other things I deeply believe in and I want to talk to you about them now.  I believe in this country. As in the introduction, I have reason to believe in it because I know that when we speak of opportunity that anybody, regardless of his background can get to the top in this country. I know it's true, and may I say that I want that to be true for all of our people - and, above all, I want America to move forward. I don't want her to stand still.  I happen to believe we have had tremendous progress under the leadership of President Eisenhower, but, my friends, when. we have a great record you never stand on it. You build on it. We must move forward - better jobs, better living conditions, better security for our old people. We must move forward as well in providing better schools, better hospitals, all the things that spell progress for a people who are as vital and as forward looking as the American people.  In talking about these good things, I know that many people will say, "Well ,now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. You said you were going to tell about the difference between these two platforms. Aren't your opponents for all these good things too?"  The answer is: "Of course." All Americans - my opponent and myself - want a better life for our children than we have had for ourselves, but there is a great difference in the road we would take to get there, and that is what I want to talk about now.  This is the great difference between the Democratic platform. and the Republican platform. This is the reason why I say that those who believe in the party and the principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson simply can't stomach the economic policies that were adopted by that party in Los Angeles.  Why? Because they say that the way to get all these good things that we want - better jobs and better housing and better schools and the like - is to turn, in the first instance, to Washington, D.C. Washington shall adopt the plans and the programs. We will have a tremendous infusion of Washington money and also a great infusion of Washington control and power over the people of this country. Whet do we say? Our answer is that the way to progress in America is not by increasing the size, not by increasing the functions of the Federal Government for the purpose of getting progress, but to recognize that the way to the greatest progress is for the Federal Government to do those things which the State government and individuals can't do or won't do themselves. Only when the job can't be done at the State level and the local level and the individual level should we run to Washington, D.C., to have it done. We say, in other words, my friends, that the way to progress in America is not by strengthening the Federal Government, but by strengthening your local government, your local responsibility and the State government of this country. We say that the way to progress in this country, in other words, is not through expanding the size of the Federal Government, but that it is through expanding opportunities for a hundred and eighty million free individual Americans. This, we say, is the way to progress in this country. In other words, instead of putting less responsibility on people, we think our people want more. So with these views, I say, as I have outlined them, the difference is clear. We have on the one side the advocacy of more power in the Federal Government over the people of the country. We have on the other side the advocacy of progress. How? Through the traditional American way of putting responsibility on individuals and through strengthening the State and local governments. This is the key issue. This is the one that I present to you today, and I say that any Democrat in this audience who knows his party, who believes in the principles espoused by Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, will find that the issues on which I have stood are the issues which those men have also advocated. Now I want to turn to one other point, and this is the most important one of all. I suppose many would wonder what could be more important than a good job, a better school system or better health care - and, of course, the answer is: Being around to enjoy them. So, the great issue before the country, the thing that most of you all of you, should have on your minds above everything else as you elect the next President of the United States is this: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency can best provide the leadership for America and the free world that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great issue of our times. I want to tell you what we have to offer. First, we have our record. My friends those of you who voted for President Eisenhower, and those who didn't. I think will be grateful to him for many things: but, above all, the American people will be grateful to him because this man, who was a great leader in war, has been one of the great leaders in peace. This is the man who ended one war, who has kept America out of other wars and who has given us peace without surrender today, and Americans approve of that record and I am proud to be running on it today. So, on the record, we ask for your support on this great issue. We do also on experience. I noticed as I came in here - some for Nixon; some for Lodge. The man who introduced me did much too good a job for me to try to elaborate on that. I can talk of the man who is my running mate, and I will say this about him: Whatever your party may be, I don't think that any man in the world has had more experience or has done a better job standing for peace and freedom against the men in the Kremlin than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. My friends, he will work with me as a partner in this great enterprise. We will work together in strengthening the instruments of freedom around the world, and we offer to you our experience as well as our dedication and our program, which I now discuss. What is the program which will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom? First, one essential for such a program is that America must continue to be and must be prepared to pay the cost to accomplish its objective. America must continue to be the strongest nation in the world militarily so that we can discourage any opponents of peace from ever starting anything anyplace in the world. I pledge to you that this we will do. Second, the American economy, the most productive in the world, must not stand where it is. We must find every possible way to strengthen this economy so that it moves forward to even greater heights and that the Soviet Union never is able to realize Mr. Khrushchev's boast that he made to me when I was in Moscow: "We're going to catch you, Mr. Vice President. We're going to pass you, and when we pass you in our economic strength we're going to wave and say 'come along and follow us; do as we do.'" My friends, Mr. Khrushchev isn't going to catch us - not in 7 years, not in 70 years - if we remain true to the great principles that have made America the most prosperous nation in the world today. A third essential is one that may surprise you. We need military strength; we need economic strength, but above everything else America needs moral and spiritual strength if we're going to win this struggle. Let me tell you why it is so important. When my wife and I were in Poland, we received a tremendous reception there. Mr. Khrushchev had been there just 2 weeks before. He didn't receive this reception. There was no notice when we came to the city about our coming. The parade route was not printed, as it was here, and yet there were a quarter of a million Poles in the streets, more than he had and tremendously more enthusiastic. Why? Why did I see people in that crowd shouting and cheering, "Long live America - Niech Zyje America." Why did I see people crying with tears running down their cheeks? Why were they throwing hundreds of bouquets of flowers at us as we went through the streets? Not because they knew us as famous people. We were not famous as President Eisenhower was famous to them. Not because we were strong militarily and economically, because Mr. Khrushchev represented military strength and economic strength. No. The reason that they cheered, way behind the Iron Curtain, was that America stands for something more than military strength, something more than economic strength. We stand for ideals that are bigger than this country, as big as the whole world as well. We stand for the ideals that the man for whom this city was named, who came across the waters in order to fight on the side of freedom, stood for. We stand for freedom. We stand for faith in God. We stand for the rights of men, and we say that those rights come from God and cannot be taken away from any man. These are the things that Americans believe in. This is the appeal we have to the world, and this moral and spiritual strength, my friends, must be continued. It must be strengthened, and you have to do it. Oh, we can help, the national leaders, by the speeches we make, but this kind of strength I am talking about - you know where it comes? It comes in the home as the child grows up. It comes in the schools. It comes in the churches. If you forget everything else that I say today, regardless of how you vote, keep America strong, morally, spiritually, ideologically, and America will do all right in the world in the years ahead. I know that there are those who will tell you this doesn't mean anything; but, my friends, throughout history the militarists and the materialists have always underestimated the power of moral strength. We must never underestimate it. This is something that we have that Mr. Khrushchev does not. This is why President Eisenhower spoke so eloquently and received the plaudits of the world at the United Nations as compared with Mr. Khrushchev who spoke there yesterday, and we have never been prouder of President Eisenhower than we were when he spoke for the whole free world at the United Nations yesterday. Now, it is not my purpose to tell this audience there is nothing wrong with this country, no progress to be made, that this is the best of all possible countries and the best of all possible worlds. Not at all. Criticism is necessary in a free country. Criticism is necessary to find out what is wrong so that we can correct it and strengthen the country, but I would only suggest this, my friends: When we criticize those things that are wrong about America, let's not overlook the things that are right about America. I say that in this period we all ought to remember it isn't necessary to run America down in order to build her up. Yes. We can * * * but, on the other hand we're the strongest nation in the world - and let's tell Mr. Khrushchev that. He knows it. We have in our economy some things we think should be improved, such as our educational system, but, believe me, we'll stack it up against his or anybody else's at any time in the world. Let's tell Mr. Khrushchev that. When they talk about American prestige - you know, you have been hearing about the fact that American prestige is falling throughout the world - my friends, if it were falling, the first place it would show up is in the United Nations. The football season is just starting now, and I know how interested you are in Tulane, LSU, and other universities here, in the scores of the games and the like. Well, we had a pretty good score the other day in the United Nations. It would have been a tremendous score in football, but it was a tremendous score in the United Nations. The Soviet Union was on one side and we were on the other side. You know how many votes they got None. You know how many we got I Seventy. I say 70 to nothing on behalf of the position of the United States proves our prestige is high, and we will continue it high in the years ahead. I have appreciated your listening, standing here, as you have so patiently, and may I just conclude my remarks by saying: I would appreciate it if you would consider what I have said, if you would consider what I stand for, what my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, stands for, in the light of America's great problems and the needs of leadership in the world, and then if you believe, apart from your party, Republican or Democrat, that we are the men who can furnish this country the leadership that it needs, then - and only then - do we ask for your support; but if you believe it, my friends, we ask you: Will you go out and work for us? Will you go out and spread this word throughout the State of Louisiana, because we want to win Louisiana, very frankly. We want to win it just like we did in 1956, and we believe, with the support of people like yourselves, talking, working between now and election day, it can be done. We thank you for giving us your attention so graciously. Thank you.
All Americans salute President Eisenhower for his inspiring speech last Thursday to the United Nations. The ideals and good faith of our people and their yearning for a trustworthy peace were never more eloquently revealed. What we saw was wise and seasoned leadership in action - unyielding, as our people are, when faced with provocations in the world - never belligerent, but always unafraid to stand up to a threat of force by the powerfully armed - all this hacked up by the most peaceful, yet the most powerful, people on the face of the earth. We need not be surprised at Chairman Khrushchev's intemperate response. The contrast between the President's attitude and his will speak more eloquently than anything any of us could say about it. From this and other recent events we see once again the true character of America's leadership of the free world. The warmth of the reception given our President by the United Nations also reminds us of America's standing in the family of nations. Our all-out support of the United Nations effort in the Congo, ending with a rout of the Communists' attempt at penetration there - our patient labors to weld the nations of this hemisphere together in attitude and action on the difficult problem presented by Mr. Castro's provocative words and deeds, rather than our acting arrogantly on our own - our role in securing a unanimous rejection by the United Nations of the Soviet views on the Congo - and now our President's challenge to the Communist leaders to face up to the great issues of peace and freedom - these, taken together, reveal that America is at a high point of world influence.  We have every right to be deeply proud and hopeful because of these achievements. They bring into bold relief the naive comments of those who seem to believe that the greater the Communist hostility the lower the prestige of our country. Let me make this clear: in our foreign affairs, as at home, I do not say we have achieved perfection. It is essential that we have constructive criticism of our shortcomings so that we can constantly strengthen the military, economic, and moral power of America. But in pointing out our weaknesses, it is the responsibility of all of us to avoid presenting an inaccurate picture of America to the world. America has not been, is not now, and with the right leadership never will be a nation wallowing in indecision, facing retreat, or losing the respect of her friends in the world. Neither of our political parties, nor any administration, can expect to solve all at once all problems for all time to come. The inspiring thing about our system is that we continue to try, aware of our shortcomings but confident that with our great strengths we will move forward. The age-old problem of discrimination and prejudice is a case in point. This is an issue that concerns not just ourselves. It has intimate ties with the overriding issues of peace and the extension of freedom. Wherever and whenever we contribute to the elimination of prejudice and discrimination, we strike a blow against the Communists and their propaganda ridiculing our moral values. Conversely, to the extent that we are unable to present to the rest of the world the image of an America in which all citizens have equal opportunity, to that extent we weaken our battle for freedom everywhere. And so, as we in America recognize our shortcomings in this respect, short comings that affect not a single section but the entire Nation, so we will continue to push forward on all fronts to bring ever nearer to reality our ideal of equality of opportunity for all. But it would be wrong and injurious to our country to say that we are not progressing at all, or are losing ground, only because our progress should be better. I believe that the charge that America's prestige in the world is lost, or impaired, or low, or declining, is both absurd and irresponsible. I think it is bad for our country abroad and will be unrewarding at home to those who make it. I believe that to dwell continuously on America's shortcomings, as if those overshadow our great strengths, serves to shake our friends' confidence in us and to undercut our confidence in ourselves. I say it is not necessary to run America down in order to build America up. While we are all willing to sacrifice for the good of our country, let us not sacrifice our perspective. There is simply no justification or need to assert we are weak when we in fact are strong, disrespected when we are respected, declining when we are rapidly advancing, simply in order to drive home the agreed and obvious point that much remains to be done in the never-ending task to build a better future.  I suggest that President Eisenhower's sober and confident example at the United Nations points the responsible way for the candidates in this campaign. Let us contrast and compare rival plans and programs that concern America's tomorrow. But let us do this without misrepresenting America's today.
STUDY PAPER  We are living in a world and at a pitch of crisis that put an ultimate premium on sheer brainpower - fully developed and unstintingly applied. We dare not waste it; we dare not misapply it; we dare not be satisfied with standards of mediocrity.  This is the challenge to American education and we have no time to lose. The brainpower market will always be out of balance: the supply will never match the demand. Never has this been more true than today. Never has the demand for trained acute minds been so urgent. A wholly new dimension has been added to the traditional process - education, in its broadest sense - by which each generation passes on to the next its ideas and inventions, its values and cultural gains. The scale of our scientific achievement, the sophistication of our technology, the penetration of our moral insights - our matchless progress in every field has intensified rather than reduced the educational challenge for the years ahead. What in general is this challenge ? It is to preserve our achievements and our heritage. It is to build on them. It is to move to new and ever higher levels of achievement. We are, in simple and sober truth, on the threshold of a new golden age with the immediate promise of making such inroads on some of mankind's most persistent enemies - ignorance, poverty, hunger, disease - as to transform our brightest dreams into realities. But this process is not automatic. There are no guarantees against failures simply because the potential for success is so compelling. There is only the challenge; all that we are and all that we hope to be depend not only on the wisdom but also on the sense of urgency with which we develop and mobilize and apply our total brainpower to meet it.  LIFE-OR-DEATH CHALLENGE This is one dimension of the challenge to American education. And there is a further new dimension - one that turns mere urgency into a matter literally, of life or death. The threat of communism, and the constant danger that the threat will be backed up by recourse to total war, has made precious our margin of safety and, more than this, has denied us the luxury of permissible error, of timelag, of tolerance of half-effort and mediocrity. As the routine norm of our civilization, we can accept nothing short of the best.  NEW NEEDS IN A MODERN WORLD Let's look at our situation more closely, in order to specify our needs in detail. Consider such facts as these: The more we learn about the universe we inhabit and the closer we penetrate to its essence, the more we have to know - if we are to succeed in mastering the natural world and turning it to moral and productive purposes. The technical skill needed to run a steam engine world is far below that needed to run one based on fusion; the problem of controlling the destructive potential of the crossbow and that of controlling nuclear missiles are utterly different. In every field, today's routine demand is for creative genius and for excellence of performance pressing the very limits of human ability. The world we live in, politically and economically and diplomatically, is one single community whether we like it or not. The question is no longer when we will achieve a true community of nations - as some far-off ideal goal - but rather how we are going to organize the imperfect community we now live in as an inescapable fact of international life. It is no longer enough to make altruistic promises of aid to newly emerging peoples; we must deal with them as equals, treat them with the respect they deserve - as proud new nations, with legitimate aspirations of their own. To live in such a world - still more, to exercise leadership in it - requires a developed range of skills and knowledge and human sensitivities that runs the gamut from geography and language to diplomacy and the law of nations. Our own domestic economy is, more and more every day, dependent on advanced technology and professional services. Fully half of our labor force is now rated as "skilled." And the trend is toward more of the same, at an increasing pace, in order to man our automated farms and factories. Research and the development of new products and markets are no longer sidelines to the business of production - they are essential parts of the assembly line. American society is one of enormous abundance, of goods and services, of leisure and cultural richness. To mobilize this abundance, to distribute it, to equalize opportunities for a fair chance at a fair share of it - these are the problems that we cannot gloss over or postpone. And to solve them within the framework of our traditional institutions and ideals - to achieve a fairly shared abundance in an America that remains free - is a further challenge to ingenuity and moral insight. What I am saying is simply this: We are living in a civilization and in a world and at a pitch of crisis that put an ultimate premium on sheer brainpower - fully developed and unstintingly applied. We dare not waste it; we dare not misapply it; we dare not be satisfied with standards of mediocrity. Because the blunt fact is that anything less than performance at a sustained level of excellence will endanger for all time to come the fulfillment of our goals and our dreams.  OUR MAJOR TARGETS The challenge to American education is, in my view, of such dimensions as these. How can we best face up to that challenge? By what use of our total national resources - including the Federal Government, but as only one institution among many - can we mount the effort required? We can begin by centering our attention on the major targets. Profession There is, first, the teaching profession itself - at the very heart of the educational process. We must attract to teaching the best men and women the Nation has to offer. We must help them obtain the best possible training - a process, of course, that continues through a lifetime and therefore involves graduate training and access to the latest advances in a progressive art. We must induce our teachers to commit themselves to lifetime careers; and this means, in plain terms, rewarding salaries, stimulating opportunities for advancement, and the sustained public appreciation and support that lend prestige to a professional calling. Art of teaching There is, second, the target of improving and enriching the art of teaching - through research and study, through free experiment and the sharing of varied experience. We must stimulate and support such research and see to it that the experience of a vast number of public and private groups is most efficiently mobilized and most widely applied. There is today a great and exciting ferment within the profession - just a few developments are teaching aided by sound tapes and by television, the use of specialized teaching teams, the year-round school, the community college, and advanced training for the highly gifted - which we must neither fence in with rigid central controls nor fail to exploit to the fullest through sheer lack of a general clearinghouse. Facilities, costs There is, third, the bread-and-butter problem of facilities and costs - adequate classrooms and laboratories and dormitories, and the money to build and staff and maintain them. Let us give due credit to the superb accomplishments of the last several years. Local school districts in every part of the Nation, and public and private college boards, have carried forward an unparalleled building program. But we are faced with classroom shortages right now, and in terms of projected enrollments, the decade ahead offers no breathing space. We must, therefore, set precise goals for new construction and for both capital and operating budgets; and we must then find the means to fulfill these goals on schedule.  THE PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE There is, finally, as a major target of our national effort, one basic problem that cuts across all the others: to evolve and maintain standards of excellence appropriate to a free society that has set its sights high. This is a concept both difficult and dangerous to put into words, because such standards are not simply to be devised, on order, by some elite committee or central authority. Indeed, to invent and then impose standards would be to destroy what is, in my view, the greatest traditional strength of American education - its freedom and variety and flexible response to local and special needs. To adopt the techniques of totalitarian societies, because they have had some spectacular success in the training of technicians and scientists would be to admit the failure of the central principle of our American creed. We must remember that our overriding faith in individual freedom is the one best path to national achievement. I have not lost this faith. And I am convinced that the American people need only the knowledge that a challenge exists and the offer of leadership, and that then their response will be overwhelming. There is a further danger in raising the question of standards of excellence. The tendency is to translate this general quality, the pervasive "tone" of a civilization, into some such formula as "every man a Ph. D. in nuclear physics." This, of course, is wide of the mark. There is need for excellence in every field. We need wise housewives even as we need wise philosophers. It is urgent that the whole American people be skilled in the ways of free citizenship. If any general formula can be stated, it might run in some such terms as these: The target of American education must be that every individual has the opportunity and the facilities to develop to the highest power the full range of his inherent ability. There must be no arbitrary barriers - neither racial nor economics. On such a scale, the excellent lathe operator and the excellent biochemist are not only equal as Americans but also equally valuable members of our Nation's pool of skilled manpower. And this, in a free society, is as it should be.  THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT I have sketched briefly the dimensions of the current challenge to American education. I have pinpointed some major targets of a total national effort to meet this challenge. Now let me turn to the practical question; in this total effort, what role can and should the Federal Government play? What are the outlines of an imaginative and a workable Federal program in support of American education - a program measured not by how much money is spent or how fast, but rather by its effective impact in stimulating and supplementing local and private efforts. (1) Aid for elementary, secondary schools A cornerstone of Federal support for American education must necessarily be a program of debt-servicing and matching grants, to the States, to accomplish two interrelated goals. First in importance is releasing State and local funds for urgent increases in teachers' pay by taking up a substantial share of the heavy burden of construction cost. The second goal - and the direct target of the grants-in-aid - is closing the gap, over the next 5 years, between projected enrollment and classroom space. It is imperative that teachers' salaries be raised to levels more nearly commensurate than now with their high professional calling and the rigorous training we demand of them. Surely it is true to say that our schools can never be any better than our teachers - and we will neither attract in the future nor keep the best men and women in the profession at the generally prevailing salary levels. At the same time, we must avoid the danger of rigid Federal controls over who teaches and what is taught in our public schools - both of them properly matters of local responsibility. We can achieve these goals by earmarking Federal funds matched with State funds, (a) for servicing debt already incurred for school construction; (b) for servicing debt incurred for new construction; and (c) for grants which will enable the construction of new buildings to go forward on a pay-as-you-go basis. More of the local funds can then be used for teachers' salaries. Thus, we will be moving in simultaneously throughout the nation on three great problems of American public education: salaries, facilities, and substantial equality of opportunity. And we will do it without menacing the invaluable freedom of our schools by inhibitive Federal control. I would, of course, add that in local areas where Federal activities put a special burden on the schools, and take land off the local tax rolls, we must additionally, as we do now, provide supplementary Federal grants. (2) Aid for colleges, universities Just as important to a vital educational system as its elementary and secondary schools are its colleges and universities, public and private. The present Federal program of low-cost loans for dormitory construction should be continued - and greatly expanded into a program of both loans and matching grants for classrooms and laboratories and libraries as well. Furthermore, Federal grants should be provided to help finance State commissions to survey and inventory their higher education needs - an imperative first step in planning effective action.  Matching grants to help our colleges meet the demand for rapidly increasing enrollment are especially important for this inescapable reason. Tuition charges do not begin to cover the total educational cost per student. Each new student added to the rolls puts an added burden on the operating budget. Help is needed if we are to provide adequate opportunity to the growing number of young Americans - an additional million, at least, during the next 5 years - who want and deserve education beyond the high school. I will have more to say about assistance to the student in various sections below. (3) Stronger teaching process This is a tremendously important and varied area of action where the need is for a combination of Federal loans and grants, professional advice and technical services, and what we might call the national clearinghouse function - of gathering and disseminating information about local experience and experimentation. More specifically, a program for this area should include Federal grants for research and development of teaching aids, such as closed-circuit television; grants for the purchase of technical equipment, grants for aid in setting up guidance, counseling, and testing services, research and demonstration grants for new administration procedures for teaching more students, and teaching them better. The Federal Government also should put special stress on establishing institutes for improving secondary school instruction in various subject areas - patterned after the successful model of the present institutes for language teaching. (4) Loans, scholarships A start and a good one, has been made under the National Defense Education Act to provide funds for college student loans. More than 100,000 students have taken advantage of this program already. But this was in a sense "emergency" legislation. We should now extend and expand this program. And we should certainly initiate, as a top-priority target, a national scholarship program for our ablest secondary school graduates - a program administered by, and its costs shared by, the States on a basis of relative ability to pay. Based on need and competitive examinations the scholarships should be flexible and can be as large as $1,000 a year. Many of our best qualified high school graduates do not go on to college simply because their families cannot afford to meet the mounting costs of higher education. We as a society cannot afford such an appalling waste of valuable brain power. As a further spur to higher education in combination with these scholarship and fellowship programs, I believe that the next time the Congress acts on tax reform legislation it should consider extending tax credits or reductions to cover tuition and other costs for higher education. The exact procedures for all these programs in support of higher education are many and varied and ought to remain so. But the aim is simple: to expand the opportunities open to all our young people for all the education they can assimilate. (6) Incentives for teachers In my view we should raise substantially the number of graduate fellowships that can be granted annually under the National Defense Education Act. In addition, the provision of this act under which potential primary and secondary schoolteachers are "forgiven" up to 50 percent on repayment of loans should be extended to those preparing for teaching careers in higher education, where the cost of long years of advanced study is a special burden and one that lasts a life-time. To cover such costs might help greatly. For example, tax allowances might substantially help the experienced teacher who wants training for advancement but cannot fit its cost into a head-of-family budget, and who is thus denied promotion. We must as a matter of national policy give every possible assistance to our teachers as they plan their career development. (6) Medical education Matching grants to accelerate the growth of educational facilities in the broad field of medicine and nursing and public health have so special an importance as to merit special attention. At present levels of training, medical manpower shortages in the future are inevitable. These shortages raise obviously grave consequences for our own people and for increasing numbers around the world who have come to depend on us for technical aid in the medical sciences. Consider just this one dramatic statistic: In the United States we have 1 doctor for every 750 people, and even that is considered a shortage; but in Indonesia, the ratio is 1 for every 70,000. Surely an investment we make now to head off a short supply of American medical technicians - for services here and abroad - will be doubly wise. (7) Vocational education Since World War I' the Federal Government has provided funds to the States for a variety of programs in support of vocational education. The objective of these programs, which serve both youth and adults, is to equip people for useful employment. And now more than ever, because of the march of science and technology, we must constantly develop our vocational education programs, so that they meet current needs, needs which are ever increasing and ever more complex. We are making and should continue to make a significant investment in grants that will stimulate research and demonstration projects designed to update and strengthen these important programs. (8) Education for handicapped The mentally retarded, the crippled, the hard of hearing, the partially seeing, those with speech defects, those with special health problems, the deaf, and the blind - all have a potential contribution to make to the life of our society. As a nation we have an obligation to provide them with the opportunity of making whatever productive contribution they can. Progress has been made in the development of teaching methods specially adapted to the needs of these groups. Much more, however, can and must be done, and Federal grants are needed to support the work of State agencies and private research organizations. (9) Adult education We are becoming more and more aware that education must be a continuing and lifelong process. Unless we reflect this awareness by continuing to strengthen our programs of adult education, our people will not adjust as they should to our rapidly changing and complex world. Programs in language, in arts and crafts, in vocational subjects, in citizenship and world affairs, refresher courses in all the formal disciplines - these are just some of the possibilities in this varied field. To illustrate: The number of our citizens who go to other countries on governmental, educational, and business missions as well as for personal enjoyment are increasing literally by the tens of thousands every year. These citizens become, inevitably, our citizen ambassadors abroad. Adult education could make a major contribution toward preparing them to be far more effective representatives than many of them are today. The modest start we have made in supporting adult education programs must be accelerated. (10) Libraries It goes without saying that libraries are basic to our total educational system. The Federal Government has wisely been making grants available to stimulate and support these facilities - to strengthen such important developments as rural bookmobiles. These grants should be continued until we have achieved the same standard of performance in this area as we demand in every other sector of our more formal educational system.  NEED FOR A COMMISSION These, then, are the elements of a broad program of Federal encouragement to American education. I do not claim, either, that it is exhaustive or that each element in it must be adopted in one precise form - that nothing more nor less will do. Clearly, it will be the job of the Executive and the Congress to work out details, to estimate costs, and to make precise outlays for the period of testing ahead. Indeed, to make sure of sustained concern for the problems of education, and sustained support for effective action, I think we should organize a permanent top-level Commission on Education to advise, directly, the President and the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. Such a Commission should provide a continuous evaluation of what is being done in every field of education, and also it should identify what is not being done that should be. It should help focus the interest of all Americans on the quality of our total educational effort, from kindergarten to graduate school.  A CALL FOR ACTION I think it is accurate to say this much about the program outlined in this statement: Any program that is to be in line with out needs must come to grips with all these problems. The Federal Government will not solve them all - and Federal funds are not limitless. But the Government must fulfill its traditional role of calling the Nation's total resources, in all their local and private centers of authority, to effective action. We have no time to lose. We have a menacing world in which we must live and a world of potential achievement to gain.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. President Hutcheson, delegates to this convention, your guests, and my fellow vice presidents on the platform, it is a very great honor to be invited to address this convention and particularly to be here on a day in which we are going to participate in a debate on television. I would say, Mr. President, that you have a rather unusual distinction in this respect. You get the opportunity to see live the two candidates who tonight millions of Americans are going to be able to see only on their television screens. This indicates the tremendous importance of your organization. It indicates the interest of both political parties and both candidates in your goals and also in your support. I am here to talk to you about your goals and your support, as will be my opponent, and I deeply appreciate the spirit in which your invitation was extended and the graciousness of your reception today. I, of course, would like to begin my remarks by finding a point of reference in which I could identify myself with the members of this organization and with the delegates to this convention. You know, when you're around campaigning you always try to say, "Well , I used to be a member of this organization or that, or I have a cousin or an uncle or an aunt who was," and that immediately gets you on the right plane with them. So, I've been doing a little looking into my family background in the last 2 or 3 days to see what relationship I could have to the Carpenters. I cannot say that I'm a member of a union, although Mr. Khrushchev has done quite well in trying to make me a member of the Grocery Clerks Union. I can only say I would rather be a grocery clerk in the United States than to have his job in the Soviet Union. I can say, however, something about my father. My father, as you probably are aware, was a Californian, but like almost all Californians he came from the Midwest. He spent his early years in Ohio, and while there his vocation was that of a streetcar motorman. He used to tell us when we were growing up - there were five boys in our family - that the reason he left Columbus, Ohio, and quit the job with the streetcar company was that he had attempted to Organize with another group of motormen, a group of individuals, who would force the company to close the platforms on which the motormen used to have to stand. As my dad used to explain it, in those days they stood out on the end of the car in order to run the car and there was no protection whatever, and he said for years afterward that the reason he had chilblains - that was the term used - was that his feet used to get cold because of the lack of protection. He said also that a year after he left the streetcar company, after this ill-fated attempt to organize the motormen had not succeeded, they did put protection up so that no other motorman in the Columbus streetcar railway did get chilblains. So at least my dad was in an organizing venture that succeeded, although it did not while he was there. But I have even a closer identification. You know what candidates usually like to say when they come before any audience is something to the effect that they were born in a log cabin. Now, I cannot say truthfully that I was born in a log cabin, but can say something that I doubt many other candidates can say. That is that my father built the house I was born in, because in addition to being a streetcar motorman, he was somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades. He worked in the oilfields in California to supplement the very, very modest income that came off a 6-acre lemon grove, which was not too productive, and he also was a carpenter. In those days, in our tiny town of Yorba Linda, I remember he often supplemented our very meager family budget by odd jobs. I want to make it very clear though that I am, as my wife will tell you, very poor about the house. I inherited none of my father's ability as a carpenter or to do things with his hands, but at least I am proud of his identification, and I only wish that he could be here to hear me speak to this organization. So much for the personal identification. May I now turn to your particular concerns to some of the reasons why I feel this organization very appropriately has both the candidates for the Presidency, one on the Republican ticket and one on the Democratic ticket, before you. First, speaking of our Republican ticket and the thing that we stand for, I know that you realize how proud I am that the father of your president, Bill Hutcheson, for many years headed the Labor Committee of the Republican Party. I hope that we can be worthy in our party of the leadership that he gave to that labor committee. I also hope that we can be worthy of the goals which he set for the labor movement in that particular position. I hope we can be worthy not only as a party, I hope we can be worthy in our conduct of the business of government in Washington, D.C., in the event we should succeed in this election campaign. I also wish to pay my respects to what this organization has done m a field in which I have had considerable experience. You know, in my early days in the Congress, from 1947 until I went to the Senate in 1950, I had the responsibility for investigating the attempts of the Communists to infiltrate various American organizations. Those attempts went on then. They are continuing today. One area where the Communists had a failure of massive proportions was in their attempt to infiltrate the labor movement. They particularly failed in those particular union organizations which are represented by this group today, in the building trades, and I think it is only accurate to point out that one of the first unions to adopt a rule making it absolutely illegal and impossible for Communists either to belong to the union or to hold office in it were the Carpenters who, long before other institutions in this country and other leaders saw the insidious danger of communism and saw that their goals were not the goals of free trade unions, that the Carpenter's Union in 1928 took this stand. For that you are to be commended, for the leadership that you gave not only to the union movement but to America as well. May I say also that you deserve a tribute which I, in my capacity as Vice President of the United States, and as a candidate for the Presidency wish to pay, for maintaining the high standards for skills and for crafts in the United States. You know, we often hear the things that are wrong about this country, and we must never forget that in pointing up those things that are wrong, which we should do in order to correct them, that America has an awful lot of things that are right about it. In that connection I remember my meeting with Mr. Khrushchev in Moscow when we were standing in that model kitchen. Some way or another the conversation got around to construction, housing and apartments and the like, and I pointed out to Mr. Khrushchev the difference in construction in our country and in his, as I saw it, the advantages that we had. He was proceeding to point out what he considered his advantages. He made a very interesting statement at that point. He said, "But, Mr. Nixon, your construction in the United States is of very poor quality." He said, "Why, you build your houses with sawdust." I couldn't understand what he meant, and then I learned later that he had seen some motion picture in which there had been a demonstration of how building went on in the United States, and what he referred to, of course, as sawdust, was insulation. Now, insulation, of course, is something that was unheard of in the Soviet Union, and here it showed, one, his ignorance of the tremendous development in the United States in the field of building and in other fields; and, also, it indicates how far we are ahead in the area of construction and housing. So when we think of the things we are behind in, let us remember that here is a place, due in great part to the skills of this organization and organizations like it, due in great part to the skills that you have contributed to, a place where the United States is first in the world. We're first in the world in construction, in quality of housing, and Americans and all free peoples can be proud of that today. In determining what subjects you would be primarily interested in, I, of course, as will my opponent, Mr. Kennedy, have a wide variety to choose from. First, I could talk about those technical aspects of the various laws which affect the building trades. I could, for example, refer to the fact that, as far as common situs picketing is concerned, I happen not to be a Johnny-come-lately. If you will check the records, you will find in 1949, when I was a Member of the House, that I joined with Senator Taft and others - he was then a Member of the Senate - in introducing legislation which would have corrected the inequities which arose out of the Denver Building Trades case. It is unfortunate that we have been unable to get such legislation passed in the intervening years. I could point out other areas where I think my views have been similar to and have represented the views of this organization in the technical aspects of labor legislation. On the other hand, it is only accurate to say that in some aspects my views have not coincided with the views of this Organization or others, for that matter, in the labor union field, as far as technical labor legislation is concerned. I point this out because I think it is only fair that when a candidate for the Presidency comes before any group that he lay it on the line as to what he believes, that he make clear those areas where he agrees and he make clear also those areas where he does not agree. What I do want to say is this: As far as the goals which Mr. Hutcheson described in his speech this morning - I had a report of it - are concerned, certainly I believe in those goals: better housing, better health, better jobs. These are goals that all of us seek as Americans. And if I could talk to that point for just a moment, let me make one particular issue absolutely clear. I think sometimes when we talk about how we are going to achieve a better life for Americans, we tend to confuse these goals which we seek with the means that we should use to seek them. As far as the goals are concerned, all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, independents, want a better life for the people of this country. All Americans certainly want progress for the people of this country. This is true of my opponent. He wants it. I know he is sincere in believing that the means he would use to reach those goals are the best means. I think you have to realize, and I think you do realize, as Mr. Hutcheson pointed out, that I too believe that the means that I would use to achieve these goals that all Americans seek are the best ways to get to these goals. The question, in other words and I think we should have this clear throughout the campaign, is not whether the two candidates for the Presidency disagree on their desire to have a better life, more progress for the American people. The question is: Which is the kind of a program, which of the candidates can furnish the leadership, which will produce that progress? Now on that score, you have to look at our records first, and in looking at the records I should point out, and I think it is only fair to point out that - while the charge has been made that under our administration, of which I am proud to be a part, America has been standing still, that we have not been moving forward, that our administration has worked in the interests of the rich and not in the interests of the poor, that we've been for the employers and against the employees, that we're for management and against the wage earner - that, in view of these charges, some of which I realize were made in the heat of a political campaign, when you look at the record, the record knocks down every one of them, and I want to talk about that record for just a moment. Let's put it in terms of your members. Let's put it in terms of the carpenters, 900,000 strong, around America. What do they want, and how has this administration been effective in meeting those wants? Well, first of all, they want jobs with good wages. What do we find as far as the record is concerned? As far as the whole economy is involved, when we cheek the progress in this administration, we find that real wages - I'm speaking of wages after you take inflation out - went up only 2 percent in the 7½ years of the administration that preceded this one. Real wages, on the other hand, went up 15 percent during the Eisenhower administration's 7½ years. So, you see, you have here a comparison which I think certainly is very fair. You have 15 years to divide. Half the time we had one administration and one party in power; the other half we had another administration, the Republican Party in power, and when we look at the record, not at what people say they are going to do, but what they do do, I say that this administration has been good for the wage earners and good for the carpenters of America, individually, and better for them than was the previous administration. Let me put it in terms of the carpenters themselves, and you can go back and check these figures, because they come right from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. We find that as far as the increase in your real wages is concerned, hourly wages, after you take inflation out, that they increased 70 percent more in the 7 years of the Eisenhower administration than they did in the 7 years of the Truman administration. And so I say to all the carpenters of America, I say to the 67 million jobholders of America when you test the two administrations in terms of performance, we've done a better job. Wages have gone up and we have held the line on prices so that those wages have meant a real increase in take-home pay, a real increase in the ability of the average family to meet the family budget. This is the first point that I would make. Now, another point that I think should be made is this; we find that our wage earners in this country - and certainly all of the members of your organization would say this - they not only want high wages and good jobs, but they also want other things which mean a good life for their children and for their families. You want better schools. You want better schools. You want better housing, and you, of course, make a tremendous contribution in producing them. You want better highways. You want better health, better security in your old age. Let's check the two administrations on this particular point, and what do you find? In the case of schools, not only were more schools built in the Eisenhower 7 years than in the Truman 7 years, more were built in the Eisenhower 7 years than in the 20 years preceding it. So, on that score I say we have a good record to present. Hospitals? We have built more hospitals in this 7 years than in the preceding 7 years. Health? We find generally the standards of health care have been improved more in this 7 years than in the preceding 7 years. Highways? You know the record there. I say that in any index that you take in these areas that I have mentioned, that when you look at the record that this administration has produced, we have produced on the promises that we have made. Our record has been better than theirs. Now that, of course, is a view of one who is prejudiced. I'm part of this administration and I want you to know that. I want you to listen to my opponent and consider what he says, but after you've heard our promises, after you've heard what we both say, that we are for the great goals that you want for your families and for your members, you do not have to rely on what we say. Look at what we've done. When you look at what we have done, I say we have a good record. It is one that has meant not only good times for the people of this country generally; it has meant good times, good wages, good jobs for the members of this great organization. And that's what you pay off on. You pay off on the performance, not simply on the promises. But this is the past. And so everybody here certainly raises a question, "What about the future?" Are we going to stand still? And my answer is twofold. First, America has not stood still in these last 7½ years. We have seen the greatest progress in those 7½ years that we have ever had in the history of this country.  But, secondly, we cannot stop here. We must continue to expand our growth, to deal with our problems and we must move into those areas in which there are weaknesses in the economy and move in effectively. Now the question is, Who can do the better job? Can our opponents or can we? Again I say I believe that the programs that we offer for housing, the programs that we offer for schools, for hospitals, for jobs, for real income for Americans will produce more effectively than will theirs. I am saying, in effect, that if you want progress for America, if you want America to move forward, we believe we know the way. We believe that the way they would have America go would not produce progress; it would in the end take us back to the time when we had very little progress, and I'm speaking of the administration which preceded this one. Let me give you an example of this. Am I suggesting here that I am coming before this group and saying that this progress is going to be created by what the Federal Government does? Am I telling you that we are going to produce more progress for America in all these areas because the Federal Government Is going to spend more than our opponents would have it spend? My answer is "No." So I'm sure many people would say, "Well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. Don't you have a weak case here? Your opponent can come in here and he is going to advocate more spending by the Federal Government for schools, for housing, for medical care, for progress generally than you will. How then can you stand before any American audience and say that your way is going to produce more progress than his when the Federal Government is going to spend more under his program?" Now put yourself in my position for a moment. Obviously I want to be elected, my opponent wants to be elected. If that were all I am interested in I could just come in here and say, "I'll raise him. If he's going to spend $2 billion on schools, I'll spend 4. If he's going to spend a billion dollars on health, I'll spend 3." That would be very simple to do. I'll tell you why I don't do that. I don't do that, one, because if I made such a promise I couldn't keep it; and two, I don't do it because if I made such a promise I shouldn't keep it, because progress, my friends, is not measured solely in terms of how much the Federal Government spends. Let me put it another way. It isn't a question of how much the Federal Government spends. It's a question of whether it spends its money for the right things. In that respect, may I just suggest this, if you carry the argument to its logical extreme and you were to say, "Well, the more the Federal Government spends the better," we might as well go whole hog and have the Federal Government do everything - and that's the worst kind of government that we could have. So we must take each one of these fields, whether it's education or housing or health, or any of the others that I have mentioned, and we must have the Federal Government do the right things, not simply judge our programs in terms of who is spending the most money. Let me put it still another way. In speaking of the right things, I am simply trying to say that the great source of progress, the motive for progress, in this country is not what government does - Federal, State and local - but what private enterprise, individual enterprise, as represented by this organization, does. Our gross national product is approximately $500 billion today. Of that amount approximately $100 billion is spent by government. The other $400 billion - where does that come from? It comes from what individual enterprise, nongovernment enterprise does. Now, if we want progress - more jobs for carpenters, for example, at higher wages, more building, more construction - where are you going to get it? Yes, we can expand this hundred billion dollars that government, Federal, local, and State, does spend. We can expand that, but the way to get most progress is to stimulate and inspire the expansion of the $400 billion sector because there's where the jobs are. There's where the most progress is. So today I do not tell you that the Federal Government is the answer to all of our problems. I do not tell you that I will raise my opponent's offers in these fields, but I do tell you this. The programs that we adopt, programs for progress in health, in education, in welfare, in housing, in all of these areas, are programs that are right. They are programs that have the Federal Government do those things that it ought to do, but they are programs that would have the Federal Government primarily recognize that the way to great progress in this country is not through expanding the functions and size of the Federal Government but through expanding the creative opportunities for 180 million free Americans. And now if I could touch on one other point. The question may well be raised, "But, Mr. Nixon, when you talk about this business of what the Federal Government does, aren't you putting a dollar sign on dealing with the problems of human misery? Aren't you putting a dollar sign on, for example, what we are going to do in the field of depressed areas, or in the field of housing or the others that you have mentioned?" My answer is we can never put a dollar sign on what Americans will do for other Americans, but my answer also is this: When you have a President who adopts policies that have the Government spend more than it needs to or that have the Government spend more than it takes in, he, when he does that, is creating human misery by that very action. What do we find? When the Government spends more than it needs to, the people have to pay the bill. These promises that candidates make - they're not paying them with their own money. They are going to make these promises with your money, and I say that it's the responsibility of the President of the United States to see that every dollar of the people's money is spent that needs to be spent, for defense or any other area, but that not $1 is spent that doesn't need to be spent. Why? Because when we spend less in Washington it means that people have more to spend for themselves. Why do I say that I cannot go along with the program that would inflate our currency? Not because I'm concerned about bankers and their interest rates and the like. From a political standpoint, there are very few bankers and there are an awful lot of wage earners. The reason I say that is that the people who are hurt the worst by policies such as were adopted in the Truman administration, when we found the value of the dollar going down 36 percent are not the bankers. They are smart enough and they have enough money to hedge against it. People who are not bankers may be smart enough to hedge against it, but they don't have the money to do it. So what do we find? We find the retired workers, we find the wage earners trying to make their wages, as high as they may be, meet the family budget at the end of the month. We find that all these people are the ones who are affected. They're the ones on which inflation takes its cruelest toll. What I am really trying to say to this group is this. Don't judge a presidential candidate on the basis of what he promises. Remember the promises he makes you pay for. Don't judge a presidential candidate on the basis of what he says the Federal Government is going to do. Remember the question is not whether the Federal Government does the most things for people. The question is whether it does the right things. When you hear a presidential candidate, remember that the strength of America is not inputting all of our problems over to Washington. The strength of America is in increasing the responsibilities and encouraging the creative activities of free American citizens. These things I believe, and I can only say in that connection, adding one other point, we need all these things - jobs, good housing, better school - but above all we need to be around to enjoy them, and the great issue, the great test you must put both of us to is: Which of the candidates can provide the leadership that will keep peace for America without surrender and that will extend freedom throughout the world? I do not need, before this group, to indicate my views in detail on this issue. They will be discussed many times in the course of this campaign. I will only give you my credentials. I know the Communists. I think I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know how tough they are. I know how determined they are, how fanatical they are to rule the world. I know that if America is to lead the free world, as she must, to peace and to freedom we must always be stronger than they are militarily, and I will insist that whatever funds are necessary to maintain an absolute superiority in military strength must be expended. I know, too, that we're in an economic race with Mr. Khrushchev. I remember when I was in Moscow he said, "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now, but we're moving faster than you are. We're going to catch up with you, and when we go by you we're going to wave and say, 'Come on, follow us, do as we do; you're going to fall far behind.' He said he was going to catch us in 7 years. He isn't going to catch us in 7 years. He isn't going to catch us in 70 years because his system is wrong. It has fatal flaws in it that will show up. But, my friends, it isn't enough for me simply to say that. America must produce to the full, and we must adopt programs that will get the most out of this great economy of ours, so that we can stay ahead in this race in which we are already well ahead, producing almost twice as much as does the Soviet Union. I know, too, as far as this world struggle is concerned, that we must recognize that in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues they do not react like the leaders of the free world, like Mr. Macmillan, Mr. De Gaulle, Mr. Adenauer. These men respect power. They respect firmness. They despise weakness, whether it is military or economic or diplomatic. I believe that it is essential that we be firm in dealing with them, that we never make a concession without getting a concession in return, that we never reduce our armaments without getting absolute assurance that they are doing likewise, and that we do all these things without at the same time being belligerent, keeping cool, keeping dignified, as President Eisenhower did in Paris and as he did again in his magnificent speech to the United Nations when he spoke for the whole free world so eloquently 2 days ago. I have told you today that I am for the things that I believe you believe in and that all Americans believe in. We're for peace without surrender, we are for a better life for our citizens. We're for progress into the future. You have to judge as to whether our programs are best for you, best for America. My last plea is simply this: In making that judgment, make it on the basis of the programs. Make it on the basis of our records. Make it on the basis of what you know about the men. In that connection, I can only repeat, as I have before, I know what the problems of our people are. I believe that as far as this country is concerned, we today are the most fortunate people in the world to live in it. I believe, with all the weaknesses that have been pointed out, and there are some that America's strengths are the wonder of the world, and we can continue to make her stronger. But as far as the decision is corrected, I ask you to make it in this light, not in terms of simply voting the party label, but in terms of what we stand for and what our backgrounds are, because remember, when we elect a President, we don't think in terms of party alone. We think in terms of America. I say to this great convention here today, only if you believe that what I stand for, what I believe in, will be best for America, best for your children, as well as for yourselves, do I ask for your support. If you believe that, I do ask for your support. If you do not believe it, I respect you for your opposition. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Governor Underwood, our distinguished guests on the platform and our friends in West Virginia, in this great hall, and in the overflow hall, and those of you listening on television and radio. I am delighted to see this crowd for several reasons. I have not been to West Virginia for some time, and after hearing and reading what has been said about West Virginia by some of the candidates of the other party who were traveling through this State, having heard that this State was as bad as it was supposed to be, as they described it, I am glad to find that there are healthy, happy, confident people here. And I do not intend for political purposes to blacken the reputation of this State or its people. There are other reasons that I am happy to be here. I recall the many fine rallies we have had in this State since 1952, and I'm so glad to hear that all over the State we have representatives who have come into Charleston tonight, and to all of you who have come so many miles. We thank you, and to those of you who have come right from Charleston, we thank you for giving us this evening and giving us your attention when you could be sitting at home listening on television, too, and we thank our television audience for giving us your time on this program tonight. I also want to pay my respects to, and express my enthusiastic endorsement for our Representative and candidates for the U.S. Senate, Cecil Underwood; for the Congress, George W. King; and for Governor, Harold Neely. You know, that's a good political name in West Virginia, and we've got a Republican Neely here. I want to pay my respects to our candidate for Congress, Arch Moore, and his colleagues. The whole State ticket - it is a splendid group of candidates, and with Cecil Underwood in the Senate, with Harold Neely as the Governor of this State following him, with more Republicans in the House of Representatives, we will get done for West Virginia what the Democrats have promised and have failed to do for these last 5 years. Now, I am here, of course, to speak for the Republican case. I could present my case solely in terms of the Republican label I could say to this great audience, which is primarily Republican, vote Republican because I'm a Republican, but I'm going to tell you tonight that the plea that I make is for all of you, whatever you are, Republicans or Democrats or independents, wherever you may be in this great State, to forget for the moment that I am speaking what your party label is, and think of this country, and I say that when we select a President of the United States, the country comes first and the party label second, and America needs that kind of leadership today. And so I speak and direct my message not only to our Republican friends, but to the Democrats and the independents. I present the case on this basis: If you believe that what I stand for, if what Cecil Underwood stands for, if what Arch Moore and his colleagues running for the House of Representatives stand for, if what Harold Neely stands for running for Governor - if these are the things that you believe in - then we ask for your enthusiastic support; but I lay forth the things you believe so that you can make up your own minds as to what is good for America, what is good for West Virginia, and that is, of course, what is best for you as well. Now, speaking first to those who may be Democrats who are listening, I 'mow that the question might arise: "How can I possibly desert my party's candidate and my party in order to vote for a Republican candidate?" The answer is very simple to that. The answer is that, as a result of what the Democratic Convention did at Los Angeles, its national leadership forfeited the right to ask Democrats who believe in the great traditions of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson to vote for them in this election campaign of 1960. I say that the principles I outline tonight are bigger than our party. I say they are supported not only by Republicans, but by Democrats as well, that they are principles as big as America itself, and in putting the case to you what I would like to do is to put it in the very simplest terms, the most direct terms. Too often I think those of us in public life talk about the Federal Government, its gross national product, the percentage of growth, and all that sort of thing. These things are tremendously important, but sometimes they are not as interesting to, and not as well understood by, people as are other issues that are closer to their hearts and to their homes. I speak to you tonight in terms of issues that every American can, and I am sure will, understand. What do you want from government?  To the people in this audience, to those listening on television and radio, what do you want? Well, above all, of course, as you think of your Government, you are thinking of your future, the future of your children. You want a better life in the future than you had for yourselves, because that's the American way. We're a go-ahead country, and we want to move ahead and we want to leave nobody behind, and this is something that all of us want. But, putting it in more direct terms, we also want from our Government the kind of leadership in which we can earn a good living, have a good job, with good income, in which we can have good schools, good programs for health, for housing, for all the things that make a decent life in this country. These are the things you want. So the question arises: What leadership is going to provide these things - the leadership that we offer or the leadership that our opponents offer? Now they charge - and I am here tonight to answer this charge - they charged when they were in this State and throughout the Nation, "Oh, you can't vote for the presidential candidate on the Republican ticket. You can't vote for the Republican candidate for the Senate. You can't vote for the Republican candidates for the House because they don't care. They aren't for the people. They are only for the interests. They aren't interested in the poor. They only like the rich." Now, my friends, let's get one thing straight right now. I know something about the problems of people. I have experienced those problems, and I am proud to say tonight that our party has a compassion for, and understanding of, people, and we not only talk a good game, we play a good game - and that's more than they do. So, you say, "Prove it." And my answer is: You don't have to take my word for it. I say that we are for better jobs, better health, better programs in housing, and the like, and they say that they are. Well, the answer is in the record. You can look at it and you will find, as you look at this record, that in terms of progress, in terms of schools built, in terms of hospitals built, in terms of highways built, in terms of progress, this Nation has moved forward more in the last 8 years than it moved forward in the previous 8 years. I say that as far as the future is concerned this Nation will continue to move forward under our leadership where it would not move forward under theirs. And, of course, another question that you might well ask is this: "What is the difference? You say that you are for progress in these fields. Your opponent says they are for progress. Why will your programs work where theirs won't?" The answer is this: Because they believe that the answer to progress is to turn over the primary responsibility in all of these fields to the Federal Government. Whenever there is any job to be done they say, "We've got to go to Washington and then work down to the people." We say the answer to progress in America is not to turn to Washington every time you have a problem first, but to start with the people first and work up to Washington, D.C. We say the way to get the jobs and the housing and the medical care and the schools, all the progress that America wants, is to stimulate the creative energies of 180 million free Americans.  We say the way to progress is not to weaken the States, but to strengthen the States and the local governments.  We say that these programs will work and that our record proves that they will work through the years.  What do they do? They start with Washington.  What do they do? They say, "Give us your money and we will spend it for you."  They have a program that at a minimum would cost the taxpayers $13 billion more than the present programs cost or $18 billion at a maximum.  And what will that mean? If you vote for their candidate and he enacts his program, it means either higher taxes or higher prices, or both, for the American people - and I say the American people do not want that kind of program in Washington, D.C.  Now, what do we offer? We offer a program of progress. We offer a program which will also mean more Federal action in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of welfare, in the field of assistance to depressed areas.  But when we look at these two programs what is the difference? The difference is that ours will work where theirs will not because we call on all the energies of this country.  We do not say the Federal Government has the primary responsibility and thereby take responsibility from the people and from the States, but we say the people must do everything that they can; the States must do everything that they can, and the Federal Government must step in and do everything that will not and cannot be done by others.  That is the way to get the most out of this country. That's the way to get the progress that we need.  And now, if I can be specific, let me take up one issue, one issue which my opponent discussed when he was here a week ago. He charged that we Republicans were indifferent, indifferent to the problems of unemployment and distress in West Virginia.  Now, first, about indifference: I know what unemployment is. I have seen people come into my Dad's store when they were unemployed and wanted a job and have to put things on the books, and I know the shame in their faces, and I know how difficult it was for the children who were in school with whom I went.  I feel this problem deeply, and I resent the charge that we are indifferent, and I say: Give us the opportunity to lead this Congress. We will prove that where they are concerned they talk about caring, but we are going to prove that we will do something about showing our feeling for the people of this country. Now, just to set the record straight, let's look at what happened to this distressed area legislation. First of all, this is not a Democratic program. It's a Republican program. For 5 years we've been trying to get it through the Congress and they have refused to enact the program that the President wanted. Two bills they passed, but they were bills that would not do the job. They were bills that vetoed the President's suggestions, and the President, therefore, has constantly come back to them - as late as this special session of Congress the President came in - and said: "Give me a bill which will aid the distressed areas of West Virginia, of Pennsylvania and others in this country. Give me such a bill so that I can sign it and we can get on with this job." And what did they do? Well, they did with that what they did with the other problems of the people, most of them in this special session of Congress. They played politics with it because they preferred an issue to doing something for the people of West Virginia and the people of this country But now some might raise the question: "But, now, Mr. Nixon, just a moment. We've been studying these bills. We find the bills that the Democrats proposed and the one the President vetoed would have spent more money for distressed areas than the bill that you support, the bill that the President supports." Now, let's look at the facts. It would have spent more money, and I don't know a better example of their irresponsibility than this one, but it handled the problem with a shotgun rather than a rifle. It would have spread money all over the country in places that it wasn't needed and there would have been less money in places where it was needed. Now, let me give you an example. You know that there are some areas in West Virginia where aid is needed. For example, this Charleston area. You know what their bill would have provided I It cost more money - get this straight - more money from the Federal Treasury than ours, over all, but as far as West Virginia and Charleston are concerned it provided only $589,000. You know what ours would have provided. A bill that cost less money to the Federal Treasury, over all, but it provides almost twice as much money for this area that needs it. Looking at West Virginia, itself, as a whole, the Democratic bill would have helped the major areas in West Virginia by $2¼ million. The Republican bill would have provided $3.9 million. In total the Republicans tried to make $8 million available to West Virginia in our bill, but the Democrats said, "No." They wouldn't pass it. They wanted to give West Virginia only $5.7 million. So, I say to you, Democrats, Republicans, independents, those of you who believe that there should be a bill which will aid the distressed areas, as I deeply believe it: Look at the two bills; look at the records, and when you make the comparison, you will find it is the Republican bill, the one supported by the President, the one that I support, that would help West Virginia the most - and the responsibility for not getting action rests squarely on the Democratic presidential candidate, and he should not be given a chance to not act again in the next session of the Congress as he failed to act in the last session of the Congress. May I say, in this connection, that I am very delighted to be able to point to the record of Cecil Underwood here. He's had a little difficulty working with his legislature. He's had some of the same problems that President Eisenhower has had, and he's handled them with superb skill and superb dignity, and I congratulate him for it. For example, the very quick way that he went to work on asking the legislature to provide for West Virginia's participation in the new program for medical care for the aged. This is typical of a man of action, a young, vigorous leader of West Virginia. The way that he has set up the Operation Step, the State temporary economic program, in which he got very little cooperation from his legislature - this is typical of this young man - I say "young man" because I'm a little older than he is - who has been a splendid Governor of West Virginia, and I say to you: Send him down to Washington, in the U.S. Senate, and send him down there with Arch Moore and our other good Republican Congressmen and we will do this job for West Virginia which the Democrats have promised and have never done. While I am speaking on this subject, may I just cover one other one. I noted that when Senator Kennedy was here in the primary he made a statement that he had also made in Indiana. I'm going to ask tonight, before this great audience, that that statement be retracted by him publicly in the interest of this Nation. This was the statement. He said: "17 million people go to bed hungry every night in the United States." Do you remember? "Seventeen million people go to bed hungry every night in the United States." Now if that were true, he had a responsibility to make the statement; but, first of all, that statement is not true. The second point that should be made is that that statement which he has made has been grist for the Communist propaganda mill. You know what's happened? Just last week I saw a copy of the Chinese Communist paper, the Peoples' Daily. They quoted this statement. They said: "This proves in America, a land of plenty, millions of people," a 10th of all of our people, "are starving, going to bed hungry every night." I say to you that nobody, including a candidate for the Presidency, particularly, can remain silent, that he ought to correct the record and tell the American people and Mr. Khrushchev the truth about the United States. Now, he claims he based this statement on a Department of Agriculture report to the effect that 1 out of 10 Americans had an unbalanced diet. Well, now, look here, President Eisenhower, when he saw this statement said, "Now, look, I go to bed hungry every night, but that's because I'm on a diet. The doctor won't let me eat any more." My friends, we do know - we do know - that there are people in this country who do not share in America's prosperity. We do know that there are people in West Virginia who do not share, as they should, in America's prosperity. It's the responsibility of Government to have a part. It's the responsibility of Government leaders to do everything they possibly can to see that this situation is remedied, but also it's our responsibility to tell the truth about our country, particularly when those who are the opponents of freedom, those who have enslaved millions, are in this country. Let's tell them the truth. What is the truth? That the 180 million people of this country are the best fed, best clothed, best housed people of the world. That's the truth. What is the truth? That we've come closer in this country to the ideal which Mr. Khrushchev claims is his own, but has never been able to approach, of prosperity for all in a classless society. And what's the truth? We find that there is a lower percentage of people who suffer from malnutrition in the United States than in any major country of the world. That's the truth, and that is the truth that I state tonight, and I hope Senator Kennedy will do likewise so that the world will know that this Nation is not - a 10th of its people - on the brink of starvation, as he has indicated by this report. And now, since my television time will run out, I want to speak for 1 minute more for the television audience, and then I have one other message for this audience before I conclude. To you in the television audience, to those in this audience, I have mentioned primarily tonight the issues that are very close to your homes - jobs, health, schools, education for your children, but, you known, all of these things mean nothing unless we're around to enjoy them. The most important issue before the world today, before America today, is this: Which of the candidates can provide the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? I say to you tonight that on our record, a record in which we ended one war, have kept the United States out of other wars and have peace without surrender today - I say that on our experience - and I will speak not of my experience, but I can say of my colleague Cabot Lodge, that no man in the world has done a better job of defending the cause of peace and freedom than he has at the United Nations in New York. I say further, on the basis that both he and I know the Communist leaders, that we know they are tough, that we will keep America strong, economically, militarily, ideologically, and that we will be firm, and you can be sure that neither of us will ever consider apologizing or expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev. We will never consider that because we know that this is not a kind of diplomacy that will bring peace. It is the kind that would lead to just the wrong results, because I know this man - I have seen him; I have talked to him - and the moment you show weakness, the moment you make concessions that are not also offered in his case in return, the result is that he gets contempt for you and he demands even more from you. And, so, I say to you tonight, as I conclude that, as far as our record is concerned, we're proud of it, proud in all areas, but we don't stand on it. We're going to build on it. This Nation is a rich country. It's a strong country. It's a prosperous country but, with our leadership, we are going to build a greater country in the future, but we are going to build it remaining true to the principles that have made America the greatest country in the world, and not by violating those principles. And in the field of foreign policy we say, with your support, we will keep the peace. We will keep it without surrender. We will give you the devoted leadership that President Eisenhower has given you, to the best of our ability, but may I say that, in giving you that leadership and making that promise, I must ask something of you, too, and I say this particularly in the light of the fact that we often have a tendency in this country to think in terms only of our great strength militarily, of our great richness and prosperity economically. My friends, we could make no greater mistake than to meet Mr. Khrushchev and the Communists on that ground alone. Because, you see, that's all they have to offer. I remember when I was in Poland, with Pat, a year ago. I remember on that occasion we received a tremendous welcome - 250,000 people in the streets on a Sunday afternoon, and no notice from the Government that we were coming through the streets. They just passed it by word of mouth. Hundreds of bouquets of flowers thrown into our cars, people crying with tears running down their cheeks. We saw these crowds shouting and cheering and singing "Long life, Niech Zyje America." Why did they say it? Not because America was strong militarily or rich economically, because Mr. Khrushchev had been there and he bragged of his economic and military strength. No. Because America stands for more than military strength, more than simply sheer atheistic materialism. We stand for ideals. We stand for faith in God. We stand for belief in the dignity of man. We stand for the right of every man, woman and child to have an equal opportunity, to have a chance at the starting line. We stand for the ideals that have caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago, and still hold it. This is what America offers to the world, and this moral and spiritual strength must come from you. Oh, leaders can talk. I can talk about it as I do now, but the moral and spiritual strength - the love of country, faith in our country, confidence in our country, faith in our moral and spiritual values - comes from the home. It comes from the church. It comes from the schools. It comes from the heart, the minds, and the souls of the American people. And I ask you tonight, as I close - I say to you: Keep America strong in her idealism. Keep her young people well grounded with their flaming loyalty to this country because we need that in these periods. When we find the Communists working for the victory of communism, every young American must have as his goal doing his best for America so that America can do her best for the world and for the victory of free men throughout the world. This is what we need, and this is the cause to which I am devoting this campaign, and with which I close this speech tonight, and I say to you that, if after hearing me you believe that the leadership that I can offer, that Henry Cabot Lodge can offer, clearly apart from your party, is what America needs; if this is the leadership that will provide the good life that you want for your children in this State and in this Nation, but, most important of all, if this is the best leadership that can keep the peace, without surrender, that can extend freedom throughout the world, then I say, my friends, I can ask for your support, and will you go all out and work as you never have before, work to carry this State, carry it for the national ticket, carry it for the Senate, carry it for the governorship, carry it for the Congress, remembering that you're working not just for a party, but for what is best for America and all the world. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Congressmen Reece, Rabbi Goodman, all the distinguished guests on this platform, and this wonderful audience here in Memphis, Tenn.: May I say first to you how very moved Pat and I are by your reception, particularly on this day when the weather is a bit, as we in California say, unusual, and may I tell you that, to be in this historic spot, to have had the chance to see this great audience on either side going way back up to the street, there is one of the sights in this campaign that I will never forget. I want to say, too, I'm honored that the mayor of this great city, who supports my opponent, was gracious enough to welcome me. I know that in this audience are members of the Democratic Party, as well as members of my own party. I know that there are some who may support the other candidate as well as some who support me, and I deeply appreciate your coming out here and giving me a chance to speak to you, and I will speak briefly because of the weather and because you have, of course, stood here so long. Before beginning, may I say that to have Marguerite sing today was a great privilege to me. I call her Marguerite, because we have been friends throughout the years, Pat and I, with her, and we, of course, have heard many opera stars and many of those who have sung on the concert stage, but maybe because she comes from Memphis, she is our favorite of them all, and I think she is yours, too. Now, I know that at this point you are interested in a great number of issues. I would like to begin by pointing out something that Carroll Reece has already referred to. I'm very proud that in 1952 and 1956 the State of Tennessee voted for the Eisenhower ticket. Now, my friends, that couldn't have happened, unless a lot of Democrats, as well as Republicans, had voted for the Eisenhower ticket. You know that and I know it. This year, 1960, we're going to put on a fight to carry Tennessee again, and we think we will. But, again, you know, and I know, that in order to carry Tennessee we have to have Republican votes and we have to have Democratic votes. And so now I come to the key question, and I particularly would like those of you who are Democrats in this audience to listen to this question: How can a Democrat leave his party's candidate and vote for the Republican candidate for President? I'll tell you why. Because the Los Angeles convention left the Democrats, millions of them in this country, because they departed from the true principles of the Democratic Party, which millions support. In other words, this year, as in 1952 and 1956, millions of Democrats, all over this country, will not vote for their party's candidate, not because they are leaving their party, but because their party left them in its convention at Los Angeles. Now, what do I really mean by that? May I present it by discussing a few issues today. I mean by that that when we elect a President of the United States it is the tradition in this country to think not just of the party label, but to think primarily of the country. That's true of Republicans. It's true of Democrats. It's the reason why in our history we've had sometimes great Republican Presidents and sometimes great Democratic Presidents, each with support from the other party. Today I ask the support of Republicans. I'm proud of the Republicans in this State under the leadership of the man who has introduced me, Carroll Reece, our national committeeman and a Congressman, but I also ask for the support of Democrats, but I ask for it on this basis: Not on the basis of my Republican friends, simply stamping the ballot Republican because I am a Republican. That isn't reason enough to vote for a man. But on the basis of whether you're Republican or Democrat, voting on what is best for America, and that is best for you.  Now, when you think of what is best for America, of course, and when you think of the charge I made a moment ago that the Democratic platform in Los Angeles departed from the great principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, you wonder how I can spell it out, and I would like to discuss those issues, some of them, in which this difference appears. May I first, however, discuss one in which this difference does not appear. This is an issue in which many people in this great audience have honest differences of opinion with me. You know, I am often asked why it is that in every speech that I have made in the South as well as in speeches I have made in the North, I have talked about the issue of civil rights, and I want to tell you why. It's a lot easier to go before a labor group and just say the things they want to hear. It's a lot easier to go before a farm group and tell them you're 100 percent for whatever the leaders of that group want to hear. It's a lot easier to go to a southern group and talk about only the things on which they agree with you and do the same in the North and the East and the West, whatever the case may be. But, my friends, whoever is President of this country cannot be 100 percent for labor or for the farmers or for the businessmen or for any group. He's got to be 100 percent for all the American people, and that means he belongs to all the American people. And, my friends, whoever is a candidate for the Presidency of the United States has the responsibility to talk the same way in the South as he does in the North and the East and the West. He has a responsibility to do that, to his office, to his party. I regret that my opponent, since his nomination, has not done that; but I intend to continue to do it because it is my responsibility. Let me say I discuss this issue not in terms of a westerner, a northerner, preaching to the people of the South. We have problems, really deep ones. This is a national problem, not just a southern problem. But I will summarize simply by saying that we need to make progress in this field; men and women of good will have got to continue to work toward that progress. I support my platform, and I would hope that you would respect me for that support and recognize the reasons why I do discuss it as I do; and if you do, I am sure you will conclude in this area all Americans must move forward. We must leave no one behind. And I say that, particularly, my friends, in the light of the fact we have a recent visitor to the United States, Mr. Khrushchev, a man who had the effrontery to go before the forum of the world in the United Nations, a man who has slaughtered thousands in the streets of Hungary, a man who has enslaved millions of people - and then pointing the finger at the United States of America for things that he thinks we have done in denying equality of opportunity. Let's do what we can in this field to deny Mr. Khrushchev and his Communist colleagues any arguments against the United States. Let's make our country a shining example for all the world to see, of equality for all. Now, may I turn to the other issues. One, the most important of all, related to the one I just discussed, as I pointed out: Which of the candidates can best keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? Obviously, here the candidates agree on the objective. We all want peace. None of us wants surrender, but I present to you, one, our record; I present to you, two, our experience; and I present to you, three, our program, and I say: Consider it, and if you believe that this is the program that America needs, on that basis, I ask for your support - on the record. I am proud of the record of this administration in this field. As Carroll Reece has indicated, the people of America will be grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for many things that he has done, for restoring honesty and dignity and decency to the highest office in this land, but they will be grateful, primarily, because he ended one war, kept America out of other wars, and has given us peace without surrender today, and all Americans thank Dwight Eisenhower for that. I say to you that Cabot Lodge and I can continue this leadership. I cannot talk about my qualifications, but I can about his, and, my friends, no man in the world today, I say, has done a better job representing the cause of peace and freedom than Cabot Lodge as our representative at the United Nations, and we certainly will continue to work together in this cause. What about the future? All that I can say is that I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know he's tough. I know he respects power. I know that he despises weakness. I know that he cannot be treated like other leaders, because he reacts differently, and these things, therefore, we will do: We will keep America stronger, militarily, than other nations, and America will pay whatever costs are necessary to do that. We will be absolutely firm in our diplomatic policies, and may no President of the United States, Democratic or Republican, ever consider it necessary to apologize or express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for defending the security of the United States of America. And, in addition to that, we will keep our heads; we will never answer insult with insult, because we will not heat up the international atmosphere to where war might break out. All these things we will do; but, finally, we must also see that America moves forward, economically, morally, spiritually. Memphis is a splendid example, this whole State of Tennessee, the neighboring State of Arkansas, and the neighboring State of Mississippi. I have seen the growth here and there can be greater growth as you use your human resources and your natural resources to the fullest. But may I say that America will move forward with us where it will not with our opponents, and here I come to the great difference in our approach and theirs. They say they want progress. They say America has stood still. They're wrong on both counts. They may want progress, but they can't produce it, and America has not stood still. On every occasion that you want, whether it's producing schools, building schools or hospitals, a better life for our people, we have done better in the Eisenhower administration than we did in the Truman administration. All that our opponents have offered to date is a return to the policies of the Truman administration, and I say the American people don't want to do that under any circumstances, and they will not. What will we provide in the future as far as leadership is concerned in this field? America will move forward, but how do we differ? They say the way to get better schools and housing and health and all these things for America is to turn the job primarily over to the Federal Government, to have a massive increase in Federal spending. [Cries of "No."] We say the way to progress, my friends, the way to. progress in the past, and the way to a bright, new future for America is not by taking responsibility from our people but by giving them more, not by weakening our State and our local governments, but by strengthening our State and our local governments. We say the way to progress is not to rely on an all-powerful Federal Government, to weaken the individual, to weaken the State, but to tap all the resources of America, to get the most out of 180 million free Americans, the most out of our strong State and local governments, and the most out of the Federal Government, but with the Federal Government doing only those things that cannot be done and will not be done by the States and the local government and by the people themselves. This, I say, is not Republican doctrine alone. It represents the thinking of millions of Democrats in this country because it has made America great and it will make her greater in the years ahead. So, my friends, this is the choice we present. In this great cotton capital of the South, in this part of the country that has contributed so much to America's economy, I make this plea to you. Consider what I said today, but also the things you may be able to read and which I have been able to speak at greater length; but above all, remember this: That when I speak of America's military strength, her economic strength, when I speak of the leadership that America must provide for peace in the world, when I speak of the leadership which is necessary if we're going to extend freedom in the world, my friends, there is one thought that I must leave with you above everything else, and it is this: If we are to win this struggle for freedom without war - and we must win it - we can't stand still. We cannot win it simply by being stronger militarily than the Communists. We cannot win it simply by being stronger economically than the Communists. I'll tell you why. Because this is where they want to fight, and this is all they have to offer. I remember my visit to Poland with Pat a year ago, a quarter of a million people on the streets of Poland cheering and shouting, throwing flowers into our cars, and as the cars stopped, I could see that many of them were crying with tears running down their cheeks, shouting, "Niech Zyje America! Long live America!" Why did they say this? Not because we were militarily stronger, economically stronger. Khrushchev had been there the week before and they didn't give him this kind of welcome. Not because I was famous, because I was not, but because they knew that America stood for more than military strength, stood for more than atheistic materialism, that America stands for ideals, for spiritual and moral strength, for the rights of men, the right of men to be free, recognizing that these rights do not come from men, but from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away by man, recognizing that America, in addition, stands for faith in God as against atheistic materialism. This, my friends, is what America must present to the world - a country, yes, that is stronger than any other militarily and economically, but a country also that is proud primarily of its faith, its faith in its ideals, its faith in the great freedoms which we have inherited from our ancestors, freedoms which are bigger than our Nation, that belong to the whole world, itself, freedoms that we have an obligation to hold high here, to make them a reality to all and to carry to all the world. This is what America must do. How do we strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber? You know who does that? Oh, a President can help by what he says. Your Congressman can help by his leadership, but that comes from the people. I noted that Memphis, from the little slip that the mayor handed me as I got in my car, is proud of the fact, and justly so, that you have 670 churches, and that's about 10 more than you have service stations, and this is probably the only town in America where there are more churches than service stations. May I say that the strength of America, this idealism of which I speak, this moral and spiritual strength, comes from the family. It comes from the schools. It comes from the churches, all of them. It comes from the hearts of our people. So, my final plea to you is this: Keep America strong morally and spiritually. Don't lose faith in our ideals. Don't believe this prattle, this nonsense, to the effect that America is second rate, that our prestige is low around the world, that the Communists gain prestige because they run riots against us, that we lose prestige because we stand with dignity against them. Remember, we are the greatest nation, and we will continue to be, provided we remember the heart of our strength, which is moral and spiritual, comes from you, and you can maintain it. So I say to you, my friends: These things I believe the next President of the United States must believe with all his heart, and must carry this message to his people, but also to the people of all the world, and in asking for your support, I do not ask it on the basis again of your party labels, but I say: Only if you believe as I believe, will you then go out and work, work for me, for Henry Cabot Lodge, because you believe, if you do, that we are the men who can keep America strong militarily and economically, morally and spiritually, and you believe we are the ones who can keep the peace without surrender. If you work this way, remember, you will be working for something bigger than a party, bigger than a man. You will be working for America, for the cause of all mankind. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. May I say that it is always a very great honor and privilege to he introduced by a Rockefeller. As you recall, when I accepted the nomination for President, the man who introduced me so generously a moment ago - his brother introduced me then, Governor Rockefeller, the Governor of the State of New York, and certainly it is with great pleasure, and I want to take this opportunity to tell you how much we appreciate the support we have had from not only Governor Rockefeller in the State of New York and around the country, where he's doing a magnificent job for our cause, but also from Winthrop Rockefeller, on whom we're counting, on him and his many friends, to carry the State of Arkansas for us in the campaign. As a matter of fact, I had talked to the Governor about the visit to Arkansas, and we had a very tight schedule. He suggested that since West Memphis was so conveniently handy to Memphis that this would be an excellent opportunity, and I so appreciate your inviting us, and I deeply appreciate, and I want to express that appreciation on behalf of Pat, my wife, and all of our party, your coming out today in this rather unusual weather. I know, too, that Pat would want me to thank you for this beautiful bouquet of flowers which was presented to her. I noted an interesting thing about it: It is traditional, I think all of you would know. I think all of the schoolchildren here kind of wonder how it is to be the wife of the Vice President and travel around the world and visit all these cities in the United States. Well, I can tell you that it is traditional for a bouquet to he presented to the wife, always, and they're different. Sometimes the bouquets are the flowers of the particular State which you are visiting. Carnations, for example, are sometimes the flowers in Colorado, and black-eyed susans in the State of Maryland, and so on. Usually, however, it's red roses. Well, now, Arkansas - and, as a matter of fact, Memphis, Tenn., also - had red roses; but you had, it seemed to me, a very nice touch, and one that I do want to mention. You had cotton with the roses, and we do appreciate it so much. I think from now on Pat and I will always remember our visit to these two cities. We'll remember it for the courtesy of the crowds, for your graciousness in coming out even when the weather is bad, but we will remember it because here your bouquets of roses were different, and they had the red and white as well because of the cotton which is so typical of this area and which plays such an important part in the economy, not only of these States, but of all the South and of America, itself. I'd like to say, incidentally, too, that coming into this area, recognizing that there is a tremendous production of cotton in this particular part of the country, realizing that there are farmers in this audience and many who will be listening to my voice, it really is, I can assure you, a great pleasure to be in a farming area where the farmers, themselves, acting on their own initiative, working in cooperation with the Government, have worked out a solution for their part of the farm problem. I think one of the most exciting stories about this whole farm problem is what has happened in the cotton program, and, while it's a technical matter which many of you who are not concerned about this particular thing from a personal standpoint will not be interested in, I know from having studied it that here the farmers on their own initiative have worked out a program in which they have gotten the production in line with supply, in which they have reduced the surpluses which have hung over the market, in which they have maintained farm income. This is certainly acting in the great American tradition of not simply waiting for Uncle Sam to do something for you, and certainly the farmers in this area are to be congratulated - and all over the country, for that matter - for what they have done in working out this decision as it has existed. Now, in the time that I have today there are a great number of issues that I would like to discuss with you. I would like to say, first of all, that I recognize that, coming into a State like Arkansas, there are not as many Republicans here as there are Democrats. We're glad to have some. We realize that the Democrats are in the majority. Your Governor is a Democrat. Your two Senators are Democrats. All of your Congressmen are Democrats. However, I think that all of you in this audience would say that the States like Arkansas, in which, for too many years, you have had simply, in effect, one party to choose from, need a change. You need it. I would say even if you were Democrats you would say this, because the best government is one in which the people do have a choice. I am glad forth at reason in this State my Republican friends, although they are in the minority, are attempting to give the people a chance to have a choice in an election. That's good for the Democrats, too. It keeps them on their toes. It is not good for the Republicans, for example, to be in power without any significant competition, and that's why in this particular State I'm glad to pay my respects to those Republicans who are here, and to those who are candidates as well. But I do realize that, as we look at this election, it will depend, in this State, as it will in many of the Southern States - as a matter of fact, as it will in my State of California where there are a million more Democrats than there are Republicans - the outcome of this election will depend not only on our getting Republican votes but on getting Democratic votes as well, and the point I would like for all of you to consider with me for just a moment, if you will, is: Why is it that any person who was a Democrat would leave his party and vote for a Republican candidate for the Presidency? And some people, for example, have put it another way. They have said, well, anybody who would vote for a Republican candidate for the Presidency would he disloyal to his own party if he were a Democrat. I just want to put it exactly as it is. President Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956 got millions of Democratic votes throughout the country. Why? Because those people who were voting for him, Democratic and Republican, were thinking of America first and the party second, and that's what we ask you to do today. We say to all the Democrats and to all the Republicans here that the issues in this campaign, the question of what leadership America is to have in these difficult times is too big for an individual to simply go into that polling booth and, simply because his father and his grandfather and his great grandfather had voted the party line, put his stamp there without thinking who the man is or what he stands for. This time the people of America are going to look at the records of the candidates, not ]ust at their party labels. This time they're going to look beneath the party labels and see whether or not the label covers the real thing or whether or not the label may indicate something that isn't beneath it. And in that connection I would like to say this: I believe that as far as the Democrats in this State and many throughout the Nation are concerned, if they study the philosophy of the great Democratic Presidents, Jefferson, Jackson, Wilson, they will find that those men stood for principles which are reflected - where? - not in the Democratic platform as adopted in Los Angeles, but more in our platform as adopted in Chicago. Putting it another way, I believe that by what they did in Los Angeles, the national leaders of the Democratic Party forfeited the right to ask Democrats who were standing for the principles of their party to support their ticket in this election campaign. I think that by what they did in Los Angeles we have a right to come to Democrats as well as Republicans and say, "Listen to what we have to say. See whether or not our views are more in accord with your views and those of the other party and the other candidate; and if you believe this, then support us." That's the way I present the case to you today. Does this mean that I agree, that our platform agrees, with everything that everybody in this State, that all the Democrats and Republicans agree with? Of course not. You know, as I know, that as far as our platform is concerned, as well as the Democratic platform, we take positions that some of you may not approve of. I mentioned, as I was speaking at Memphis, the issue of civil rights. It's a terribly difficult issue, a complex issue. I attended school in the South for 3 years. I know how difficult the issue is. I know, too, that it isn't just a southern issue. I know that its an issue in the West where I come from. I know it's a problem in the North. It's a problem in the East as well. It's a problem of all Americans, and it's one we've all got to work together to solve. It's one in which I have very deep convictions, convictions which are carried out in our platform, and it is one which I want the people of this State to know where I stand. I know that you will respect me for my convictions. You will respect me even though you may not agree with them. I express them today particularly because a man, Mr. Khrushchev, is visiting the United States, and here this man, this man who has enslaved millions of people, who has slaughtered thousands of them in the streets of Budapest, comes to the United States - and what does he do? He points the finger to us and says we are the people who enslave people; we are the people who deny opportunity. Now, progress has been made in this field, but more needs to he made. It needs to be made for reasons that all of us can understand, but one of the major reasons it needs to be made is this: I say, as Americans, let's all move forward together, leaving none behind, so that we can take away any arguments that the real enemy of freedom, Mr. Khrushchev, can have against the United States and what we stand for around the world. Now, what about these issues in which our platform is more in accord with your thinking, those of you who are Democrats, as well as my Republican friends here? I'm just thinking of these children down here. I'm thinking of what you want for them, what I want for my two girls. It's all pretty much the same thing. I remember my dad used to say when we were growing up that he never wanted to go back to the good old times. He said, "I remember those good old times," when he used to work for a dollar a day, and sometimes less, and 14 hours a day, with not even Sundays off. He said, "In America nobody must ever want to go back. We always want to go forward. We never want to he satisfied with things as they are, no matter how good they are." This is a great country, and all you have to do to appreciate how great it is is to go somewhere else, to 55 countries, as Pat and I have, then come back to America to realize what a wonderful country it is. It has some faults and some weaknesses, but, my friends, let's never emphasize those weaknesses without emphasizing the things that are right about the United States as well because they outweigh them tremendously. But, great as America is, we want a better life for our children than we had for ourselves. We want better schools, better housing, better medical care. We want progress, which means, for them, better jobs with more income. We want to see that all the areas of this country expand. We want to see our agriculture come forward with our farmers throughout the country getting a better share, a fair share, of America's increasing prosperity. In speaking on some of the other crops in my recent talks in Iowa and in South Dakota I touched these points. I reiterate them here again today. The question is: How do we build a better America? How do we make progress in schools and all these things? Well, here's where we have the great difference in philosophy and approach between the Democrats on the one side - I mean not the Democrats who are in this audience, not the millions who are going to vote Republican this time at the presidential level, but I mean those who left the principles of their party and wrote a platform in Los Angeles - we have a great difference between that platform and what you stand for and what we stand for. They say the way to progress, to get the schools and the housing and the better jobs and everything, is for the Federal Government to take the primary responsibility. Send the job to Washington. Spend millions of dollars more. Hire thousands of more people to tell the people back in the States and the local communities what to do. Now, here is what we say. We say that it is tremendously important, tremendously important in this country, for government to do what needs to be done. We say, for example, that great projects like TVA, Grand Coulee and others in the western part of the United States can't be done by individuals and by the States and by the local governments and that the Federal Government must, therefore, take the leadership in building these projects because America must move ahead. But we also say this: When there's a job to be done, the place to start to see who should do it is not to start with Washington and work down, but to start with the people and work up to Washington and get there last. In other words, look at your Arkansas development plan. Look at what Winthrop Rockefeller and his people have done here. They have not simply said, "Washington, please come help us," but they said, "We're going to help ourselves." And, so at the local level, individual enterprise, working with the States and the local government, and then asking the Federal Government for help when the job is too big to be done at the local or the State level - that's the difference. We believe the answer to progress, in other words, is to expand opportunities for a hundred and eighty million Americans. We believe the way to greatest progress in America is not to weaken the States and the local government, but to strengthen the States and the local government. Whenever the job can be done at the State or the local government level, it ought to be done there and not sent over to Washington. Now, I ask the Democrats who are listening to me: What does this sound like? This is what you believe, and yet your party or at least those who control it at the national level completely repudiate all this. They no longer believe in this. They have given up on individual enterprise in many fields. They have lost faith in what the States and local government and the people can do, and they say that we have to take these problems to Washington to tell the people what to do. I don't think that's the way to progress in America. I think the way to progress is, as I have explained, through getting the most out of all our various government facilities, but primarily by getting the most out of the tremendous power that resides in our people. Now, the last issue I would like to discuss is the most important of all. It's the future of these young boys down here, and the girls as well. I know some of you may say, "Now, look, what's more important than jobs and schools and cotton?" My answer is: Being around to enjoy the good jobs and the good schools and the income from the cotton. On that all that I can say is that I present to you our record. I present to you our experience and our program, and I ask for your support on that basis. First, for the record: There has been a lot of criticism of President Eisenhower's leadership in the field of foreign affairs, but, my friends, they pay off on the results, and in 7½ years this is what he has done: He's ended one war; he's kept us out of other wars, and we have peace without surrender today - and I think the American people want that and they like it. Second, as far as the future is concerned, I would say that we can look at our experience, I cannot talk about mine. That is your prerogative to judge that, but I can talk about my running mate's, and I say there's no man in the world today who has had more experience, who has done a better job of representing the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President, at the United Nations. We will work together in this cause, work together as partners, in keeping the peace without surrender, extending freedom throughout the world. How will we do it? We will do it, first, because both he and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communists. We have dealt with them. We know that you can't treat with them from a position of weakness, whether it's military or economic or diplomatic. That means America must continue to be the strongest nation in the world militarily; our economy must continue to grow so that we are always ahead of them economically. We also must see that as far as our diplomacy is concerned. we never make a concession without getting a concession in return.  In that connection, may I say, knowing these men, the time must never come when any President would consider apologizing or expressing regrets for attempting to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack. We will negotiate, yes, but in negotiating we will always remember that the men on the other side of the conference table are not like the other leaders of the free world. These men are men who understand power. They understand firmness. They have nothing but contempt for weakness or for gullibility, and this is the kind of leadership we offer to you in this field. So, I say to you, finally, today: Judge us not on the basis of the labels we wear, but on the basis of what's behind the label. I say look behind the label, be it Republican or Democrat. See if it is the kind of goods you want to buy. See if it's the kind of good you think America needs. If you believe it is what America needs, then I say: Go out and work for us, Democrat, Republican, independent, go out and work for us as you have never worked before, and we will do something that Arkansas hasn't done for many, many years. We will see to it that Arkansas this year joins with other States throughout the Nation in putting America first, in putting principle first in supporting our ticket because we stand for those great principles which the majority of the people in this State and the Nation believe in. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Congressman Wainwright, Senator Keating, Mr. Chairman, Reverend Clergy, all the distinguished guests on the platform, and this great rally audience here in Suffolk, I was told by Stuy Wainwright just before I came on to this platform that this was the first time that a presidential candidate of either party had ever visited this county. I want to tell you tonight that, on the basis of what I have seen, it sure isn't the last time a Republican candidate is ever going to come here. Thank you. Somebody asked me as I was sitting here - your chairman - "How does this compare," he said, "Mr. Vice President, with other rallies that you've seen around the country?" My answer is that I have never seen a rally that could surpass this not only in size, but in enthusiasm - and this indicates why this county has such a great tradition for our party, why you are going to give us a tremendous majority, but will help us carry the State of New York this November. Incidentally, I understand that outside the hall are a number of people who could not get in, who are having to listen by public address system, and after we finish the remarks here Pat and I will go outside so that you can hear me briefly, but mainly so you can see Pat, because I know you will want to do that too. I was also asked, at the end of a day of campaigning in the great State of New York: "How is it going? What do you find people are thinking about? How are the crowds reacting? What are the great issues of the campaign" Tonight I would like to begin by sharing with this great audience some of the experiences of a presidential candidate over the first few weeks of this intensive campaign which has taken us from Maine, down east, to Hawaii, in the far, far West, which has taken us to the North and the South, to the Midwest, to the Mountain States, to California, Oregon, and Washington, all in the space of 2 weeks or so; and there are some conclusions that we can draw from what we have seen. There are some things that will stand out in our memories: A little girl, for example, in a hotel lobby in Nebraska, in Omaha, at 8 o'clock in the morning, who had gotten up - she was only 8 years old - to see us off. She came up to me and she said, "You know, Mr. Nixon, my daddy is going to vote for you. And you know what I do? I make a wish every time I go under a bridge that you'll make President." And we have memories of little girls, boys, others making their wishes, sharing them with us, and it makes us, as you can imagine, very humble and very aware of the responsibility we have as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States. We have other memories that are not connected necessarily with campaigning: A stop at a school for the deaf in Michigan; another one in Iowa, talking with the translator of sign language standing beside us, seeing the light in the eyes of these children, who could only read our lips, and in some instances, not even that, but who nevertheless, had a feeling for this country, an understanding for it, a faith in it, that inspired anyone, and after an experience like that we realized that whatever little problems we might have, however long the days might be, they were very, very insignificant to the ones that they had. Then, in addition, we have been to great rallies like this, at night in halls, none any more enthusiastic. As a matter of fact, this is like the Republican National Convention - you've even outdone them - in Chicago. Yesterday in the rain in Memphis, Tenn., an estimated 25,000 people on the riverfront, standing there in the rain for an hour, because we were delayed, and listening to what we had to say; crowds - some of them Republicans, primarily, as this one is; some of them mixed with Democrats, Republicans, independents - all of them people concerned about America, her leadership, and caring enough about America to give us the time to talk to them. So, first, tonight, I want to thank you for coming out. I want to thank all of those who have helped put on this meeting - your county committee, those who arranged the entertainment, but particularly you who have spared us an evening of your time to hear our side of the story, and in presenting that story to you tonight I again want to share with you what I find the people are thinking. What is the issue that overrides the rest? What is the one that joins Americans together? You know, we often hear how different we Americans are about this and that and the other thing. Oh, they'll tell you a labor group is interested only in the things that affect labor. They'll tell you a farm group is interested only in the things that affect the farmer, that the people in the North think altogether differently from the people in the South. There are differences, I can assure you, and each economic group has a different attitude concerning its various problems and the leadership the Nation needs, but, my friends Americans are united by great issues and the one which unites them primarily today is their concern over the future of this country and of the world. And you know what it is? It is the great issue of which of the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency can give America and the world the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. Some of you might ask, "Why would a labor group be more interested in this than in good jobs and good pay?" Because they know that this comes first and that the best jobs in the world aren't worth anything if you're not around to enjoy them. Why would a farm group be more interested in this, as I found at two great plowing matches in Iowa and South Dakota? Because they know the best farm prices in the world don't mean anything unless you're around to enjoy them. Why is it that people, everywhere we go, whether it is on the streets down in Nassau, a little earlier today, or in Queens, or whether it is here in Suffolk tonight, have this in their minds? Because they know that their future, their children's future, depends upon the leadership we get. So tonight I talk to that point, and in talking to that point I want to ask you to judge what I say by a different standard than might have occurred to you. The standard is this: I do not ask for your support tonight on the basis that I am a Republican and that you may be, if you are. I say that the issue, this one particularly, is so important that it is one that we must decide, not on the basis merely of a party label, but on the basis of the interests of America. We are Americans first. We are partisans second. So, judge what I have to say on the basis of what is best for America and we will be satisfied with the decision. Now, I naturally believe that the leadership that my colleague Cabot Lodge and I can provide is the leadership that America needs and that America should approve; but you must be the judge, not me, not him, not our opponents. So, I want to tell you tonight why I think our leadership is the leadership American should vote for apart from any partisan considerations. First, you must judge us by our record, and as far as that record is concerned, we have both been part of it, he in the United Nations, I as a member of the President's Cabinet and also as one who has served as Vice President and had various assignments in that capacity. Looking at that record, you will find that it is subject to a considerable criticism, and that is the responsibility of our opponents, to point out those things that are wrong so that we can correct them. But let me say this: My friends, all the criticism in the world of the Eisenhower record in the field of foreign policy cannot obscure the truth that the great American people know, and that is this, that under his leadership we have ended one war, we've kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. But let's look a little further. "Mr. Vice President," the critics will say, "this is an uneasy peace. We have allowed our advantages to be frittered away. America is fast becoming a second-class nation, Second in education, second in science, second in space, going to become second militarily, going to become second economically, because America has been standing still for 8 years." This is what we hear. We hear that American prestige has fallen to an alltime low. That's an old record, of course. Mr. Stevenson played it in 1956 and a majority of 9 million Americans said he was wrong, and it's just as wrong today as it was in 1956. American prestige - by what do you measure prestige? There isn't any better place to measure it than in the United Nations itself. We had a test last week on the Congo, on which the United States was on one side and the Soviet Union was on the other side. You know what the score was? They got none. We got 70. That's pretty good in football. It's better in international relations. But the critics may say: "Mr. Nixon, don't you know that the Communists ran riots which stopped the President from going to Japan? How do you explain the fact that the Communist ran riots against you and Mrs. Nixon when you went to Caracas and they spit on her and on you? Doesn't this show that something's wrong with us?" My answer is this: We must not blame ourselves for what the Communists do. We must recognize that when we are succeeding in any area of foreign policy the Communists aren't going to approve it. We must recognize, too, that, as we look at the situation, whether it is in Japan or whether it is in Venezuela or anyplace else in the world, the United States is not trying to get a policy that will please the Communists anyplace in the world because if we do that it will not mean the peace without surrender that all Americans want in the world today. Does this mean that our policy has been perfect? Not at all. It simply means this: That as long as we have this great conspiracy in the world, determined to conquer the world, we are going to have trouble created by them. But the test is, How do you deal with it? Do you handle it correctly? Do you avoid the pitfalls on the one side of weakness and surrender and on the other side of belligerence which could lead to war We have avoided it in the past, and now the question for Americans is, What leadership can avoid it in the future and extend the cause of freedom for all the world? So, on the record, may I say we are proud of it. We are proud of it. We say that all the criticisms about America cannot obscure the solid facts - the fact that America today is the strongest nation in the world militarily, that we are the most prosperous nation in the world, that we are ahead in education and in science, and that we can stay ahead if we move ahead, and that we will do under our leadership more than we will under theirs. What else does our leadership recommend? Of course, you must look at our experience. I cannot comment on my own - that is for you to judge - as it compares with that of my opponent, but I certainly can comment on my vice presidential running mate's, and I will say this: I don't think any man in the world today has had more experience and has done a better job fighting courageously and articulately for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President. The cynics might say, "But, Mr. Nixon, what does a Vice President matter?" And the answer is that in our administration the Vice President is going to be a partner in the development of policy and implementation of policy, and particularly in the foreign policy area he will have assignments that even I have not had, and mine have been unprecedented, and I want to say that working together as partners we will strengthen the instruments of peace - the United Nations, the Organization of American States, new organizations as they may be necessary, which will strengthen peace and extend freedom through out the world. We say we have that experience, valuable experience, and we let you judge that according to what likes you may have, comparing it with what our opponents may offer. Then the third point you have to look at is this: Our record; our experience, our program. What do we say America must do if we are to keep the peace? What are we to do in the years ahead? We begin by saying that America cannot stand still militarily, economically, scientifically, or in any other area. The charge, of course, is made that America has been standing still, and my answer is that those who say America has been standing still haven't been looking at the United States as I have, because America has been moving. And if you want to make a comparison, say take any index of progress - the building of schools, the building of hospitals, the development of our economy, our gross national product, the increase in the real wages of Americans - and you'll find we've done far better in these 8 years than was done in the previous 8 years, and that's what they pay off on. But, whatever we have done, we are not satisfied. We must move forward from here, and these are the things that we pledge to you: We will see that America's military strength, at whatever the cost may be, is maintained at a level that it will deter any aggressor from ever launching any attack or from ever being in a position where they can blackmail us at the conference table. This we must do, because, my friends, the danger, in my opinion, is hot so great that a military attack might be launched against us. The danger is that any American President in the future will go to a conference and will have the man sitting across the table be able to look down his throat and say, "I'm stronger than you are." This must never happen, and I pledge to you it will never happen under the leadership we will give America. And we must move forward economically. Why is economic growth important? Because here is an area in which a competition is going on in the world today which could prove decisive. We've been challenged. I remember Mr. Khrushchev, in Moscow, speaking to me in that famous discussion in the kitchen. He said, 'Oh, Mr. Nixon, I know we're behind you now economically, but.," he said, "you know, we're moving faster than you are. We're going to catch you, and we're going to pass you by, and as we go by we're going to wave and say, 'Come on, follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall behind in this race.'" And I want to tell you what our answer is. He said he would catch us in 7 years. He won't catch us in 7 years or 70 years, provided we remain true to the principles that have made America the most prosperous country in the world today. But the risk of his catching us will be increased if we turn to policies that stifle the main motive power for progress in America. You know what it is? It isn't what the Federal Government does, as big as it is. It isn't what the State government does, as big as it is, or the county or the city government. It's what people do. The people of this country have been responsible for our progress, and it's because under our leadership rather than turning to Washington for the solution of every problem - under our leadership we have programs for progress in schools, in health and education, and all these other areas that I have mentioned which will rely primarily on encouraging and stimulating the creative activities of 180 million free Americans. That's the way to progress in this country. And what do our opponents offer? They say, "Come with us so that we can attack these new frontiers." Ah, there are some great new frontiers which America will certainly cross, but let me say we will not be able to cross those frontiers with the programs and policies of yesterday.  What do they offer? Look at their economic policies. Study them and you will find that they're retreads, pale carbon copies of what America left in 1953, and I say America does not want to go back to the policies that failed in 1953. We want to go forward and build on the great policies of this administration, and that is what we offer to you. And so I say these things now. We submit to you our record. We submit to you our experience. We submit to you our program for military strength and economic progress in this country, always moving forward, with the Federal Government taking the responsibility for leadership, the responsibility to do those things which the State and local governments and individuals cannot do, but with the Federal Government always recognizing that the motive power must come from the people. These are indexes these are the principles, which we will follow in the program of leadership which we offer to America. What else is necessary We need a diplomatic policy that is just as strong as the economic and military strength which America has and must have in the future. What do I mean by diplomatic policy? We had a pretty good example of it at the Paris Conference. You remember that Conference - Mr. Khrushchev broke it up. He broke it up over the U-2 flights. He said because of those flights he was going to have to break the Conference up. And do you know what happened? President Eisenhower came back to America, and there were people that criticized him. On the one side there are people who say, "Ah, Mr. President, you should have answered that fellow with the same kind of language he used on you, because he insulted you." But what did President Eisenhower do? He did the right thing, and I'll tell you why. When you're confident of your strength, when you know you're right, you don't lose your dignity and get down and answer a man in kind like Mr. Khrushchev. And I say we have had from President Eisenhower again in his speech to the United Nations on Thursday another example of the kind of leadership which is firm, but nonbelligerent, which will always go the extra mile but which will never be gullible by the Communists and never be taken in by them. This is the kind of leadership America needs and it is the kind we will continue to have under our administration if you give us the opportunity. Of course, all the critics of the President after that Conference weren't those who thought he should have answered. There are others who said, "Ah, the President didn't go far enough to save it; why couldn't he have agreed to Mr. Khrushchev's condition?" Khrushchev, if you recall, said, "If the President will apologize, I'll go ahead with this Conference." Let me tell you why he couldn't. I happen to know this man, as Cabot Lodge knows him. He doesn't react like the leaders of the free world, and we must have a President who knows him and understands how he operates, and I'll tell you this: Whenever you make a concession to a dictator without getting one in return, it is not the road to peace. It is the road to exactly the consequences that you want to avoid. And, so, on that score it would have been a mistake for the President to have apologized, but there was another reason, even more fundamental, and it is this: The United States can always apologize for anything that is wrong; but, my friends, whenever the President of the United States is doing something that is right, whenever he is trying to defend the freedom of this country against surprise attack, I say that no President, Democrat or Republican, must ever apologize to anybody for doing that. And, so, diplomatic firmness we add to the other ingredients of economic strength, military strength, which I have described. There's another element which is tremendously important, which I mention in every speech, and I mention it again to this crowd tonight. I say tremendously important. It is probably the most important of all. This is a great contest, my friends, for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. My wife Pat, and I have seen it all over the world - in Africa, in Asia, in South America - a seething change going on, and in this contest, military strength counts, yes; economic strength counts, yes. But the greatest strength is the strength of our ideas and our ideals, and here we have an advantage that Mr. Khrushchev can never meet. What do I mean by that? Let me give you an illustration. I recall our visit to Poland. A Sunday afternoon a year ago. I recall the Government had not indicated where we were going to arrive or where we would drive when we went through the streets of Warsaw; but the word goes around in a dictator's country by word of mouth, and there were a quarter of a million people on the streets. They weren't just curious. They were shouting and cheering, as you shouted and cheered tonight. They were doing more than that. They were throwing bouquets of flowers into our car. They were kissing Pat's hand, and mine, and as the car was stopped, time and again, in downtown Warsaw, I looked into their faces. Some were smiling and laughing. Others were crying, with tears streaming down their cheeks, men and women doing this. Why? Why this tremendous outpouring of affection Not for us as individuals, because we were not famous to them. Not because America is strong militarily or economically, because Mr. Khrushchev had been there a week before. He had claimed that kind of strength, and they had not done that for him. No. The reason why, behind the Iron Curtain, a quarter of a million people came out was that America stands for more than atheistic materialism. We stand for more than military strength. We stand for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago, ideals bigger than this Nation, ideals that belong to all mankind, ideals that we, as a nation, have a responsibility and a destiny to extend to all mankind. What are they? Our faith in God. Our belief in the dignity of men and women, in their rights and opportunities to have every opportunity to get ahead, an equal chance at the starting line; our belief in the rights of nations to be independent, of people to be free. These things we believe. This is what the people of Poland were cheering for. This is what America stands for, and this strength, moral and spiritual strength, can come not just from a President. It must come from the hearts of our people, and I ask you tonight: Whatever you may do in this election campaign, strengthen the moral fiber of this country. Be sure that our next President will have behind him young men and young women, older men, older women, all people, who have love of country in their hearts, who know what America really stands for, who realize that we are not simply strong because we're rich, not simply strong because we have missiles, but we're strong because we believe in the right things. This comes from you, and we ask you to do it. And this strength, which can come from our homes, from the churches, from the schools of America - this is the strength that will prove to he decisive, and whoever is President must have it behind him, and certainly I appreciate the opportunity to talk to a great audience and see this tremendous demonstration of interest in our Nation's affairs. And now my last point. I have spoken of this great problem, this issue of survival for America and the free world. I want to indicate to you a word of faith about the outcome. We will win. We will win without war. I know it because I have seen America and I have seen the world and, with all the talking about the weaknesses of America, never forget: This is the greatest country in the world, and we'll continue to be with the right kind of leadership. Never forget - never forget - that the people of the world are on the side of peace. They're on the side of freedom, and what we must do is to give them the leadership that they want and they need, and we will give the lie to Mr. Khrushchev's boys that our grandchildren will live under communism. It will be his grandchildren who will live in freedom. This will be our goal, and we tell it to him and the whole world. And now, my friends, may I close by saying that in this campaign you have a choice, a choice between candidates, between programs and policies, and I ask you to make an intelligent choice, but I ask you: If you believe, and only if you believe, but if you believe that Henry Cabot Lodge and I together are the team that can provide the leadership America needs, not the party, but America needs, then I say: In this great county of Suffolk, its 700,000 people, go out and not just vote, but work as you never have before, remembering that you're working not just for a man, not just for a party, but that you're working for America and for the cause of peace and freedom for all mankind. Thank you.
Senator Javits, Senator Keating, Congressman Wainwright, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and all of the audience in front of me, behind me, and on each side of me. May I say that it's a very great privilege to be here with you and to have this wonderful turnout in the middle of the afternoon. I want to thank each of you for coining. I know that the conditions under which you will be listening are rather difficult. I can see you out there all crowded together. I can see you with no chance, of course, to sit down. I know you've been here a long time and Pat and I do appreciate your coming and welcoming us as graciously as you have. There are many things that I would like to say to you today but I know that in the positions in which you're standing that brevity is something that a speaker should always adhere to. But I'd like to begin by thanking those who helped put this meeting on. It's really a wonderful meeting to have this group gathered here and I know all the work that must have gone in it - to build this platform - and particularly, don't you think we ought to give a hand to all of them and to our two bands - the Hicksville High School Band and the --- Band. [Cheers.] There's the other one over there. I greatly appreciate music. You know that's one place I'm like Harry Truman - I used to play the piano myself. [Applause.] But now if I could have your attention for just a few moments I would like to discuss some issues that are very, very close to your hearts. They're just as close to the people in this audience as they are to those to whom I have been speaking all over this country - from Hawaii to Maine, in the South, and the North, and the East and the West, we have had great throngs of people like this. And I have found that running through these crowds wherever you go is one primary concern above everything else. Do you know what it is? It's the concern about the future of our young people. We're all thinking of that. I see some of the waving down here when I mention them. Our children know how we love them - we grownups. I remember my father used to say to me when we were growing up and to my four brothers, he said, "You know, I never want to go back to the good old days and I'm not looking for that for you. I think this is a pretty good country but I want it better for you than we've had it for ourselves." I remember that he was able to finish only the sixth grade in school and that's why both he and my mother used to work long, long hours in a grocery store - the rest of us worked there too - but they worked very, very long hours so that their sons could all go to school - even to college. I know that everybody in this audience has these same feelings for your children as we have for ours. And I know that you look at me, a candidate for the Presidency, and you say what's he going to offer us. What can he do that can help us? Help us so that we can do a better job for our children, so that America can be a better place for us to live in. And I'd like to tell you today something about what I believe America's leadership, the American President can do for our people. First, I want all of you to consider this question. What do you want most of all from government? Well, a good living. We'd like to be able to have the opportunity to have a good job, to be able to go in these stores and buy the things we need and then have enough left at the end of the month to pay the bills. We want all these things but above everything else do you know what we want? We want for ourselves and for our children peace without surrender to the forces of slavery throughout the world [cheers and applause] - because, my friends, nothing else matters unless we do this. So the first test you must put on to me, the first test you must put on those others who are running for office in Washington, and incidentally, I am so happy that we have in the U.S. Senate in Jack Javits and Ken Keating two men men who have been in the forefront of the fight for peace and freedom and with whom I will be privileged to work as the President of the United States if you give us the opportunity. [Applause.] I know, too, that you recognize the great abilities of your own Congressmen in this field - Sty Wainwright - a man who specializes in foreign affairs. But returning to what a President can do and what you want from him, you know that above everything else this is the responsibility of government. So I say to you, test us. See whether I, my colleague Cabot Lodge, whether we offer the leadership America needs or whether our opponents do. Now I want to tell you what we offer. First, we have a record. We both have been part of an administration. For 7½ years he and I have worked with President Eisenhower in this cause and in others for America. What is that record? Speaking of it in this field may I say that there are those who criticize it. But I say that the people of America will be forever grateful to Dwight D. Eisenhower for ending one war, for keeping us out of other wars, and for bringing peace without surrender to the world today. [Applause.] And to those who say, ah yes, but President Eisenhower has let America slip. He has let us become a second-rate country. We find that our prestige around the world is slipping. We find that the Communists are starting riots in Tokyo against our President, riots in Japan against our Vice President. And this is a terrible thing. Just let me say this. These people are making the mistake of blaming their own President and their own country for what the Communists are doing. Let's stop it and be proud of the United States of America. [Applause.] When the Communists run a riot in Tokyo against the President of the United States, or in Caracas, Venezuela, against the Vice President and his wife, it just shows they don't like our policies. And we are not going to change our policies so that Communists do like them because if we do, that means we surrender to what they want in the world and this we must never do, I'm sure you all agree. [Applause.] What do we offer in addition to a record? Well, in this field we offer our experience as I have indicated. I cannot talk about my experience. That's for you to decide - as against my opponent's. But I can talk about my running mate's and believe me, you folks who have seen him on television at the U.N. will agree when I say that no man in the world today has had more experience and could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations and our candidate for Vice President. [Cheers and applause.] We run as a team. We will work as a team. We will work for the cause of peace and freedom, working to extend it throughout the world. What else do we offer? We offer our experience, our background, and the things that we believe America must do. This is the way we believe. First, we know the Communists because we've dealt with them. We know that they are men who respect strength. So we will begin by seeing that America's strength is first in the world, always first, and whatever it costs, my friends, we're going to see that we maintain that position of strength because we must never be in a position where a President of the United States, sitting across the conference table from a man like Mr. Khrushchev, where he can say, in effect, that he's looking down our throat. We've got to be in a position such as we are today where we're stronger than they are. Why? Because that way we discourage him ever from using his strength for blackmailing us or using it to start war any place in the world. So strength is one. What else? We have to have economic progress to go along with that. Economic progress because, my friends, America must continue to be the strongest nation in the world economically as well as militarily. We're in a race with the Soviet Union and the Communist world, a race that we're winning and we must continue to win. And we believe that our policies will win this race and that theirs would run the risk of losing it. I'll tell you why. Because we say that the way to get progress in the United States, maximum progress, is not to turn everything over to Washington, D.C., not to increase the size and the spending of the Federal Government just for the sake of doing it. We say that Washington should do those things only that it needs to do and there aren't many things that it must do to lead this country, but that the way to increase the strength of America economically is to increase the opportunities for individual enterprise of 180 million Americans. [Cheers.] And that's what we have here. Now on this score you will hear our opponents say, "Ah, but Mr. Nixon, America has been standing still. For 8 years we haven't been moving." But those who say that haven't been traveling around America. Look at this place. Look at this tremendous shopping center. What built it? Government No; individual enterprise. I am for individual enterprise and I believe we've got to encourage it in America. [Cheers, applause.] And I am for policies that will always give to the people of America the maximum opportunity to develop their creative energies. What else do we need? If we're going to keep the peace we've got to have a firm, strong diplomacy. Firm without being belligerent. We begin with the fact that no President of the United States must ever indulge in the luxury of losing his temper when dealing with men like the Communists. Why? It should be much easier to do. I know how hard it is to hold it. But I can tell you that he can't do it. He's got to be cool in the toughest crisis because we must never heat up the international atmosphere to the point that a nuclear expression could be risked. What else do we need? Not only must we do that, but no President of the United States must ever be gullible. You must recognize that the men in the Kremlin are different from the other leaders of the world. These are men who understand firmness and strength, and, understanding firmness and strength, they are men who have utter contempt for those who are advocating or who practice concessions without getting concessions in return. That's why it would have been a mistake, as some have suggested, for President Eisenhower to have expressed regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for the U-2 flights which were ordered to protect this country's security - a mistake because it would not have saved that conference in Paris but also a mistake no President of this country, Democrat or Republican, must ever apologize to anybody for protecting the security of the United States of America. [Cheers.] So in addition to all these things, the military strength, the economic progress, that I have referred to, the diplomatic firmness, America, in addition, needs a flaming idealism. I suppose so me of you may wonder now why is he going to talk about that. After all if you're dealing with men like the Communists who respect only strength, what does idealism matter. May I say that through the centuries people have always underestimated - not all people, but the militarists and the materialists have underestimated the power of ideas, the moral and spiritual ideas of this Nation, the ones for which we stand throughout the world. In that connection may I say to this great audience that you are the ones that can help keep America strong in this respect. Love of country, faith in God, faith in our ideals, recognition of the dignity of men and women regardless of their background, making our ideals a reality for all of our people, so that a man like Mr. Khrushchev won't be able to come to the United States as he did last week, this man who has been responsible for slaughtering thousands in the streets of Hungary, this man who has enslaved millions in his own country, for him to come here and point the finger to us and say, "You Americans are practicing prejudice, you are enslaving people." Let us do what we can to see that American practices at home what we attempt to preach abroad. That's recognition of the dignity of all men an women regardless of their background. [Applause, cheers.] This comes from our homes. It comes from our churches. It comes from our schools. It comes from you. Finally, I say to you today that having traveled through the world having seen our own country, that I would not want to end this talk without a note of faith. People sometimes come to me concerned. They say the Communists are trying so hard. They're so fanatical and they're causing trouble here, there, and everywhere. Are we going to win? Can we have peace? Will freedom prevail? My friends, it will and I'll tell you why. Because we're on the right side. We're on the side of peace, the side of justice. We're on the side of freedom. And I have seen it in the faces of thousands of people in 55 countries around the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain. What we need is leadership in America, backed by a united people regardless of party which will keep America strong economically, but above all, strong in her faith, her faith in God, in her ideals and faith in ourselves. That is my message to you. [Cheers; applause.] If you believe that the leadership that I can offer, with my colleague, Cabot Lodge, that this is the leadership that America needs, then I say whether you are Democrats or Republicans, I ask you to think of the country first.. If the country needs what we have to offer, only if you believe that, then I say, "Will you go out and work for us? Will you go out and roll up a majority here such as we've never seen?" If you do, remember, you will be working not just for a party, not just for men, but you'll be working for what is best for America and for the cause of free men throughout the world. Thank you very much. [Cheers; applause.]
We see today the greatest migration in American history. Until 1940, our Nation was becoming urban, but since V-J Day, we have become increasingly suburban. Today our metropolitan suburbs hold almost as many people as all our cities put together: We have 53 million suburbanites and 55 million city dwellers. Four-fifths of our dramatic postwar population increase has been concentrated in the suburbs, and by 1965, suburban people will outnumber and outvote city dwellers in nearly every State. By 1975, of the 140 million Americans who will then be living in metropolitan areas, at least 80 million will live outside the central cities. What we are seeing, therefore, is urban transformation. Part of it is a massive redistribution of purchasing power, for increasingly the suburbs absorb the more competitive members of our community: Skilled labor, business and professional men, clerical and service workers. They are homeowners, aware of taxes and living costs, and eager to use consumer credit while they are establishing their homes and founding their careers. They have helped to underwrite over a million new residential housing starts a year since 1950. They are supporting the purchase of millions of new and used automobiles each year, and they have faith in their future in a free enterprise society. In their efforts to find more congenial, wholesome surroundings, they are adding a new province to the business economy and a new dimension to our social life. The problems thus presented are formidable for, in every metropolitan area, there are numerous and mutually exclusive political jurisdictions: States, counties, municipalities, and townships. There is also the growing challenge of urbanized strips that reach almost continuously from Norfolk to Portland, Maine, from New York City to Chicago, and along the Pacific and Texas coastal areas. We can deal with this so-called urban sprawl only by steady support of effective and farsighted zoning powers in States and counties. The transportation problem is equally complex. The automobile and superhighway have created massive urban traffic and parking problems. Common carrier service, by rail and bus, is costly and difficult, and calls for imaginative integration by public regulatory and taxing agencies Additionally, land speculation is driving prices to uneconomic levels - in some cases over 3,000 percent in 10 years. There is acute need for schools, hospitals, churches, libraries, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, water, sewage disposal and other utilities. All of these impose a demand for goods and services which can challenge our productive capacity for decades. Finally, there remains the difficult problem of city housing. I refer to slum clearance, urban renewal, the rehabilitation of private housing, and low-rent and middle-income housing. These are urgently needed by millions of Americans who will continue to live in our central cities. Obviously we need a general Federal policy to deal with these dynamic developments. As to this, I realize all too well, that some are tempted in matters of this kind to say that this problem is so complicated that we must set up a great new Federal bureaucracy, appropriate billions of dollars, and have the whole thing dictated from Washington. I say that we must avoid this at all costs. On the one hand, we must block Federal dictation; on the other, we must assure the progress we want and urgently need. Is there an effective way? There is - one that will retain local control while assuring the Federal leadership that we need. I propose that we follow these principles to assure sustained growth: First, America's national housing policy for the 1960's must encompass not only assistance in financing homes and apartments, but also must involve entire communities. It must assure a sound and workable environment in planning for metropolitan areas as a whole. This dictates establishment of a Federal agency to serve as a clearing-house for information and advice on such metropolitan area problems as metropolitan growth renewal and adjustment. Next, we must recognize that, in zoning and in planning for area development, the State governments are the most practical jurisdictions for dealing with county and local governments. The area of urban housing and renewal presents us with a clear need for prompt Federal action, guided by this simple principle - that a sound public housing policy should be one that will minimize the need for subsidized housing. There is, for example, little economic sense or social justice in taxing some middle-income families to provide housing for other middle-income families. The Housing Act of 1949 has worked well to improve the housing shortage we inherited from the depression and World War II. There is now an ample supply of dwelling units and substantial vacancies in all but a few scattered areas. Since 1950, occupied substandard housing has declined at the rate of over 700,000 units a year. Almost two-thirds of our families own their homes. New planned neighborhoods with fine schools and churches abound in all of our metropolitan areas.  But we still face a crucial problem. Clean air, adequate recreational space, a quick and pleasant journey to work, uncrowded classrooms are all important parts of a high standard of living. All America wants them now. The situation is urgent. In 4 or 5 years, the population explosion which began in the 1940's and produced the school crisis of the 1950's will bring the housing crisis of the 1960's. We must prepare to meet the impending crisis now, not when it is hard upon us. The housing experience of the 1950's suggests the soundest policies for the coming years. Our cities can be developed into efficient, beautiful, and livable communities if there is affirmative leadership at the Federal, State and local levels and if there is continued emphasis on methods of stimulating private investment. I emphasize that Federal leadership does not consist simply of providing more funds. It also involves a keen appreciation of the market consequences of Government intervention. Federal funds must be so channeled as to assure that the private market mechanism will propel rather than retard public efforts. In keeping with the concepts I have outlined, I propose this seven-point program. 1. We need a market area approach. Our renewal program must, on balance improve the living conditions of families throughout the entire metropolitan area, not solely in the central areas. We must, therefore, develop a long-range comprehensive land-use and transportation plan, and also a workable program, for every metropolitan or urbanized area within which Federal urban renewal funds are expended. 2. We must establish improved criteria for Federal assistance. We know that some renewal projects can pay for themselves through increased tax payments, even without Federal subsidies. For sound projects the total number of redeveloped acres should become much greater. Our goal to this end should be outright Federal grants, with local contributions, giving the local areas greater freedom to plan, innovate, and improvise as they see fit. 3. We must stimulate expenditures for residential renewal and new housing. This must be a major effort, one that will induce both business firms and private households to increase expenditures on housing. In the 1950's we expanded demand by liberal credit. Achieving further expansion for new homes through this device must be further encouraged by the appropriate Federal agencies. 4. We must stabilize construction and the housing economy. As a general proposition, a stabilized construction industry will contribute more to overall economic growth and stability than one which is widely fluctuating. We can achieve a higher and more stable flow of housing credit, with a higher potential for new construction, by injecting some market flexibility into the fixed interest rate on Government insured and guaranteed mortgages. To help solve the problem of high interest rates, the total supply of mortgage funds needs to be expanded by such devices as making mortgage investments more attractive to pension and trust funds and by removing arbitrary limitations on home mortgage transactions by commercial banks. 5. We must review and bring up to date the public housing program. I say this because a number of our citizens will continue living in substandard houses, who neither can improve their own homes nor move into better housing elsewhere. We can improve the present program by providing for single family as well as multiple unit projects and by rental of existing private units by the housing authorities. We also need purchase plans for qualified tenants, rent certificates, and a liberalization of eligibility requirements. 6. We must do a better job of meeting the problem of relocation. Obviously, housing conditions as such are not improved by demolishing occupied substandard housing if, in the process, the total supply of low-cost accommodations is reduced. 7. We must do far better in assuring equal opportunities for minority families. All of us realize that the abandonment of low-quality housing unavoidably involves the problem of race, for racial minorities typically account for a large percentage of the inhabitants of deteriorated sections of urban areas. As a matter of national policy, we must take special steps to insure that, in their rush for renewal funds, cities do not gloss over the housing problems of nonwhite residents. We must see to it that all non-whites, both those in renewal areas and elsewhere, have the opportunity to obtain good housing in attractive neighborhoods. Finally, I point out that continued Federal leadership in the solution of urban renewal and housing problems can be effective only if our approach is unified. The new national policy - to maximize private investment through action - must be stated in sufficient detail to provide guidance for individual programs. The most immediate and effective way to put this policy into effect is to convert the Housing and Home Finance Agency into a fully integrated agency, with operating authority clearly vested in the Administrator, reporting directly to the President. I am convinced of this: Through the teamwork of Federal leadership, private investment, and State and local responsibility for area development and planning, we can meet the housing crisis of the 1960's - in city and in suburb. We can, and we must, do this - before this deepening crisis exposes millions of our citizens to serious inconvenience, cost, and hardship.
Vice President Nixon. Governor Rockefeller, Senator Javits, Senator Keating, Congressman Derounian, Congressman Becker, Joe Carlino, all of the other distinguished guests here. Attorney General Lefkowitz, are you back of me here? Fine. And then our leader here, Ollie Patterson. May I say that this, of course, is one of the great crowds of the campaign and we thank you for making it so and for being so patient as you have in coming out. [Cheers - applause.] I know how difficult it must be for you to stand here jammed so tight, to have stood here so long, and we do appreciate it deeply. I would like to say that we ought to express our appreciation to all of those who put this meeting on, for all of those who made the arrangements - I know it took a lot of work to do it - and particularly I think we ought to express by our applause our appreciation to the director, Angelo Ferdinando, to the [garbled] High School Band How about a hand for them? [Cheers - applause.] I can't see them but I can sure hear them and they sound good. May I say that the opportunity to speak to a great audience like this is one that does not often come to any man in public life and it is an opportunity which he must always use to the very best of his ability, not simply to serve whatever his candidacy may be for a particular office but also to discuss those issues that are closest to the hearts of our people and to discuss them in a way that our people understand and can make an intelligent decision on the leadership this Nation is to have. I want to say today, following the spirit of the introduction by the Governor, that I believe as you must believe that this election this November is as important a one as this country has ever had. I believe that not just because it will be important to me as an individual, as it will be, and to my opponent, as it will be to him, not only because it's important to my Congressman friends here - Steve Derounian, whose office is right across the way, and, incidentally, he and I are both Chowder and Marching Society. You don't know the society but that means Steve's OK. And may I say that to him, to Frank Becker, and the rest. But this election is important to you, to every American. And it's not only important to every American; it's important to every person in the free world and every person who wants to be free in the whole world today. That's how big it is. And that's why what I say and the decision you make must be responsible. So I want to begin by trying to enunciate what I think is the most important issue of this campaign. Oh, I know we could get a lot of argument about that. If we were to go through and take a Gallup poll of the group here, some of you might say schools. Some body else might say hospitals. Somebody else might say jobs. All of these things are vitally important. And I am proud we have a record, a platform in which we will produce where our opponents will make promises that they can never produce on and never have. [Cheers.] But you k now what could be more important than our job? What could be more important than our education for our young people? What could be more important than health care for our older citizens and for ourselves? And the answer is being around to enjoy all these good things. So I say to you today that the most important decision you will make on November 8 is this: Which of the candidates for the Presidency, for the Vice Presidency, can best furnish the leadership that will keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? [Applause.] This is the great issue. I say this issue is the great issue. Now I'd like to tell you how I'd like you to listen to me as I talk. I don't want you to think of yourselves as Republicans, or Democrats, or independents, whatever your registration may be. I say that when you select a President of the United States we do not and we must not think solely of the man's party. We've got to think of the country first. So think of America. What does America need in the way of leadership that will keep the peace, that will extend freedom, that will provide a better life for our children than we have for ourselves? That is the test I want you to put me to, my friend and colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, to, the others running with me on this ticket to. That is the test. Not just our party, not just whatever our individual personality may be. And in talking to that point I want to say now those things I believe, those things that I believe America will need if we're going to keep the peace, if we're going to extend freedom and if America is going to continue to progress to the greatest heights that civilization has ever seen. I believe that we deserve support from the American people - Cabot Lodge and I - because of the record of which we've been a part. I know that record has been subject to criticism in the field of foreign policy - a failure here, a failure there - as a matter of fact, you wonder how so many things could have been done wrong and so much come out right in America when you hear the critics of our foreign policy in this country. [Applause.] But I will say this: All the criticism in the world, partisan or otherwise, will never obscure the fact, the truth, and that is, that the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for ending one war, for keeping America out of other wars, and for giving us peace today without surrender. [Applause.] And this is what we certainly want to continue in the future. Now you know when you have a record that is good, there's always a temptation, that is to stand on it. But a record is never something to stand on; it's something to build on - to build into the future. We're proud of our record in which Americans enjoy the greatest prosperity that this world has ever seen. We're proud of the record in which we built more schools than were built in the 20 previous years. We're proud of a record in which we've seen more progress in hospitals, in real income to our workers, than ever before in the history of this country. But, my friends, we don't stand here. We say that we have a platform for the future of America and we lead you into a better future. What about this great issue? Where do we stand? What do we offer? Consider these things. First, you must consider our experience. I cannot talk to [of] my own experience; that's for you to judge. I can talk about my colleague's. And I will only say that nobody knows better than the people in New York who had the opportunity to see him so much on television at the United Nations, the truth of what I'm about to say, that no man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President, at the United Nations. [Applause.] I say to you today that he will be a partner with me working to strengthen the instruments of peace, to strengthen the United Nations, to strengthen the Organization of American States, to build new organizations, confederations, which will strengthen freedom and strengthen peace throughout the world. May I say in that connection that I believe that we offer to the country a combination in experience which the country needs and which we believe the country wants. Incidentally, among those signs - where's Lyndon ? - I haven't seen him here today. Anyway, going on from there, what else do we offer? Our background, our experience, and then our program. As far as program is concerned, we begin with the essential and do you know what it is? You must know those who threaten the peace. Who are they? Not us. Not the British. Not the Japanese, the Germans, the Italians. There is only one threat to the peace of the world today and to the freedom of the world, and that is the one presented by the International Communist Movement with its power center in the Soviet Union and in Communist China. So I say to you that Cabot Lodge and I know the men with whom we have to deal. We've had experience in dealing with them and on the basis of that knowledge these are the things we can and must do as a country. First, we've got to keep America stronger militarily than any power in the world and the American people I know are willing to pay what is necessary to maintain that strength. Why? Because Mr. Khrushchev is a man who respects power. And an American President must never be in a position where he goes to a conference table, or where the Vice President or the Secretary of State, or any American who goes to a conference table and sits opposite a Communist and the Communist says, "I'm looking down your throat. We've got more strength than you have." That is not the case today; we're stronger. It must never be the case. And I pledge to you that America will continue to be the strongest nation in the world militarily so that we can keep the peace for all the world. [Cheers.] This Nation must also move ahead economically. You know as we've driven through Nassau, as we've driven through these Long Island suburbs today, I've realized the tremendous growth of our economy. I've realized what has happened in these last 8 years, for example. I remember the first time I came out here in 1952. The new buildings, the new construction, thousands and thousands of new people. And to those that say that America has stood still for 8 years, I say they haven't been traveling around America. Go around and see America. [Cheers.] But, my friends, great as that growth has been, we can't rest on it. We've got to move forward and I'll tell you why. Because we're in a race, a race for our survival, and we're challenged by men who are dedicated. Their system is wrong; ours is superior. Mr. Khrushchev told me he was going to catch us in 7 years. I want to tell you what our answer is. He won't catch us in 70 years provided we continue to move forward as we must in the years ahead. [Cheers.] So I pledge to you that in education, in health, in science, in all of these areas, we will move America forward. You say how does your program differ from that of your opponents? Don't they want to move America too? The answer is: of course. But we believe we know the way and we don't think they do. They offer programs that we left in 1953 and the American people don't want to go back to that period which resulted not in progress but in stagnation of our economy. I say that we know the way where they don't for another reason. They suggest that the way to progress in America is always to turn everything over to Washington. They start with the Federal Government and work down to the people. We say that the way to progress in a free country, in America, is not to start up in Washington but to start with the people and work up to Washington, that it comes from the people of this great country. We say that government must play a part. It must lead. It must give direction. It must do those things that cannot and will not be done by the individual, by the State or by local government. But the way to the greatest progress in the country is to have not only a strong National Government, but to have a strong State government as you have here in the State of New York under the leadership of Nelson Rockefeller [applause], but to have also a strong county government, to have also a strong city government. But above all, what we need is a strong individual enterprise in this country. That is the heart of American progress, And our program will encourage and stimulate the creative energies of 180 million Americans and theirs would not. That is why we will progress, we will move where they will not in our opinion. The other point that I would make is this. With this power, economic, military, that I have described, we need also a strong diplomatic policy, a diplomatic policy which, again, recognizes the kind of men we're dealing with. You know the trouble is too often people think that in dealing with men like Khrushchev they react like the leaders of the free world. Now I know Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Macmillan, Mr. De Gaulle, Mr. Nehru, and I know how they would react. They would react like President Eisenhower and other free world leaders would. But not Mr. Khrushchev. Remember, here is a man that has only one aim - conquer the world. Here is a man who will use any means to do that - to conquer the world. When you're dealing with a man like this, you must never make a concession without getting one in return. Appeasement is the road not to peace, it is the road to war or surrender, and we must never have that in the United States. [Cheers.] That is why I say that to those who criticized the President after the Paris Conference, to those who said that the President had been too tough, that he should have tried to save the conference, saved it by apologizing to Mr. Khrushchev for the U-2 flights, I say to you that the reason the President couldn't do that - there were two. One, it would have been naive and gullible for him to do it. Apology would not have resulted in saving the conference; it would only have whetted Mr. Khrushchev's appetite and made him ask for more. But beyond that, remember this. Whatever you may say, however you may vote, the time must never come when a President - Democrat or Republican - ever considers apologizing for attempting the security of the United States of America against surprise attack. [Cheers.] So our policy must be firm but it also must be aggressive in the cause of peace, strengthening the instruments of peace, and it must be aggressive in the cause of freedom, never attempting to impose our rule on anybody else, always thinking of what we can do to live up to the ideals for which this country came into the world 185 years ago, ideals that are bigger than America, ideals that belong to all the peoples of the world. I would like to speak to these ideals for a moment and I will be through. Why do I mention ideals? I have had people talk to me after speeches and they say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, you're a realist. You know this fellow Khrushchev. He only respects strength. Why all this talk about idealism? What good are ideals standing for freedom standing for faith in God, standing for belief in the dignity of man. What good is all that in a world in which all that counts is material strength and military strength?" I'll tell you the answer. The answer is the history of civilization. The militarist and the materialist have always underestimated the power of ideals but ideals are what make the world move, ideals are what America stands for. I often recall my experience with Pat in Poland. I recall that Sunday afternoon when a quarter of a million people were on the streets of Warsaw - not ordered out by their Government, but there because they wanted to be. Throwing flowers into our car. Shouting and cheering. I remember the caravan stopped eight times in the heart of Warsaw by people swarming around. And I recall looking into the faces of those people. Some were laughing and cheering at the top of their voices. Others were crying, men and women with tears streaming down their cheeks. And they were shouting, "America - long live America." Why? Not because we were militarily strong and economically strong, because Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before. They didn't cheer him like this. Not because Pat and I were famous because we were not as President Eisenhower would have been. I'll tell you why and this is the heart of my message to you. Because America stood for these people behind the Iron Curtain for something more than military strength, something more than economic might. We stood for faith in God. We stood for the dignity of men. We stood for belief in freedom. And this is the heart of the American ideal and the next President must present this picture of leadership to the world because this is what we offer that the Communists cannot match. Because they believe in none of these things and this is what we stand for. What can you do to help? I'm often asked that. By children, for example, in high school and so many of you are here today, in grade school and college, and by others. What can I do, Mr. Vice President, to help in this struggle and I'll tell you what. America, to present the kind of leadership that we need to the world, must have strong faith in her own ideals, confidence in the rightness of her cause and that can come not just from a leader talking about it, but it's got to come from you. It comes from the church. It comes from the school. It comes from the families of America. And to every one of you here, wherever you may be and however you may vote, I say strengthen the idealism of our people, infuse in our young people a love of country, a true love of country in which we recognize what is wrong and try to correct it, but in which we don't ignore the things that are right, in which we are proud of being Americans and realize it is the greatest country and always stand up for it when it is under attack. Infuse into our people this burning idealism because across the world there are men driven by fanatics, driven by fanatics who are fighting for the victory of communism. And we must fight for ideals even stronger than they fight for theirs. So what you can do then is to make the American ideals true. Make them live. That's why I say to every audience when the opportunity is presented, when we talk about the issue of civil rights and the equality of opportunity, remember, we do this not simply by doing a favor to people that are discriminated against. We do this because it's right. We do this because it helps America. We do this because America must never be in a position such as we were in a few days ago where a man who has enslaved millions and has slaughtered thousands in the streets of Hungary is able to come in this country and point the finger at us and say, "You do not practice what you preach. You are the ones that practice prejudice." So I say to all of you, my friends, whatever the prejudice may be, or the hatred, in this country, let us from our hearts fight it. Let us fight it because it's wrong. Let us fight it also because America cannot lead the world unless we are true to our own highest ideals. So again may I thank you for being so patient, for listening to my message, and may I close with this thought. You are Republicans and Democrats and independents but you are above all Americans. We want your support. I ask for your support. But in asking for it and wanting it, I urge you put it on the basis of what's best for America. And if you believe that Henry Cabot Lodge and I can afford the leadership that America needs and America wants, the free world needs, then, my friends, if it's that kind of leadership, this is a cause worth working for as you've never worked before, worth fighting for as you've never worked before. Oh, I know we'll give you a big majority out of this county, we need the biggest you've ever got. So go out and do it for us if you believe as we believe. Thank you. [Cheers - applause.]
Mr. WEEKS (Editor, Atlantic Monthly, moderator of panel). Mr. Vice President, it's very gracious of you to be with us this morning. Every one of us saw your debate with Senator Kennedy on Monday night, and we know that you have not slowed down your pace since then - in West Virginia yesterday, flew to New York this morning, and your breakfast for this breakfast, and before this breakfast, I am told, oatmeal at 7 o'clock. But this is not a debate. We are here for information, and we will obey your rules. We want to stretch out and those editors who are around you will try to keep you awake. I am going to open the proceedings, if I may, by asking a teaser. When I have a long haul ahead of me, I like to think of the fishing trip that I'm going to go on as soon as I get out in the clear. Would you tell us what form or kind of vacation or rest do you look forward to when the election is over? I don't seem to remember that you ever play golf. Vice President NIXON. If you don't mind, Mr. Weeks, and members of the panel, I will stand to answer the questions. I would say as far as my relaxation is concerned, your comment that you don't remember that I ever play golf is probably the most objective comment about the quality of my golf that I've ever heard. If I have the opportunity to have a little relaxation, I would say that would be the latter part of November, that possibly the opportunity to go to the seashore would be the one that I would take, first of all. I'm not a good swimmer, but I like salt water. I like to walk up and down the sands and collect shells, do the things that people do when they go to the beach. As far as golf is concerned, never having become good enough at it to enjoy it as I should, I think probably I have given it up for the duration; but I've said that before. So, I don't make that as a promise. That's not a campaign promise, I assure you. Mr. WEEKS. We will open the heavy artillery with Mike Cowles. Mike, will you be heavy artillery for the first question? Mr. COWLES (Cowles Magazines, Inc., chairman). Mr. Vice President, I hate to ask you tough questions this early in the day. Unfortunately, we know very little about what is happening in Red China. I think this audience would appreciate it if you would tell us what you feel is happening in Red China, what you feel the present relationships are between Red China and the Soviet Union, and under what circumstances would you favor admitting Red China to the United Nations? Vice President NIXON. Well, first, my observations with regard to what is happening in Red China would not be worth much more than those on this panel. I, of course, do have access to intelligence information, but the information we have from Red China is limited and, of course, it is mixed. I would say that looking at that information, considering the other types of information that we get in addition to intelligence information, that these are the conclusions that I would arrive at: Red China has a very dedicated, aggressive Communist leadership in the early stages of the development of communism. I think perhaps the best way to indicate the difference between the Communist leadership of Red China and the Communist leadership of the Soviet Union is in their attitude toward the use of war as a means of accomplishing the Communist objective of world domination. Now, there's no disagreement whatever between Mr. Khrushchev and Mr. Mao Tse-tung with regard to the fact that communism must conquer the world and will. They believe it will. They believe it must, and they will use any means to accomplish that end. Mr. Khrushchev, however, in recent years, particularly the last 3 or 4 years, has taken the line, as we all know, of saying that they do not have to resort to the use of force and that they will not resort to the use of force. In fact, he has even at times indicated that, and that they can and will accomplish their objective through what he calls peaceful competition between the two systems, communism and the system of freedom. Mr. Mao Tse-tung, on the other hand, does not go along with this philosophy. He says that, in a nutshell, after the First World War we had the arrival on the international scene of the Communist government of the Soviet Union. After the Second World War, he said the result was the extension of communism to over 600 million people and a third of the earth's world population. He goes further and says that after the third world war, it may be that communism will dominate the world. Now, when we look at this almost diabolical reasoning, here is what he is saying: He is saying that China with its tremendous population does not fear a third world war, that it would think that they believe that a third world war might result in Communist domination of the world and, while, of course, they would suffer more, and the end result would be the extension of communism and not the extension of freedom. That brings us to the basic difference between Mr. Mao Tse-tung and Mr. Khrushchev at the present time. When I use these two names, incidentally, I am not, of course, trying to downgrade other Chinese Communist leaders, who may be more influential or as influential as Mao Tse-tung at the present time, but the basic difference is in their attitude toward what means communism will use to dominate the world, and we find here again that Khrushchev is insisting on following the line of so-called peaceful competition. He follows that line because, one, he knows the terrible power of the atomic weapons and he respects our power, despite what those who downgrade our power indicate he thinks of it. In addition to that, Mr. Khrushchev honestly believes, I think, that he will accomplish more through peaceful means than he would through war in extending communism. As Adenauer said to me when he was over here, Khrushchev does want to rule the world, but he doesn't want to rule the world of ruined cities and dead bodies. He wants to rule live people. But Mao Tse-tung looks at it differently. So, we find here a basic ideological conflict going on among Communist leaders who do not follow Mr. Khrushchev's thoughts on peaceful coexistence, at least as far as words are concerned; but, nevertheless, compared to Mao Tse-tung's thoughts, extremely peaceful; and this, therefore, has resulted in ideological conflict between the two. Now, can we base our policy on the assumption that this conflict will result in a split? Here you have a very great disagreement in the international community. There are those who believe on our side that we can assume that China and Communist Russia are inevitably going to break apart and that the line of U.S. policy and free-world policy should be to drive them apart. Now, two comments on that point: Any obvious attempts to drive them apart would be counter productive as we can well see, because they are bound together by a strong ideological bond, that is, the Communist ideology, like any religion, binds them together and in some respects binds them together more than any religion has ever bound people together in the history of the world. And so I say to base our policy on the assumption that they're going to break apart would be an error. Now, we come to the final point: What, then, should be our attitude toward recognizing Communist China and admitting it to the United Nations? It has been my position - it is now and it will continue to be in the future, until circumstances change - that we would make a very great mistake to change our position on recognition of Red China to the U.N. or admitting to the U.N. or recognizing it, and the two must and would go together, I believe. The reason is, when we look at the U.N., for example, that Red China simply does not qualify to belong to an organization which, in its charter says membership, in effect, is open to peace-loving nations. You can read a statement every day in the papers that Mao Tse-tung or the Peoples' Daily in Communist China, a statement to the effect that they are not a peace-loving nation. They are in an aggressive posture toward the United Nations in Korea today. They are engaging in an aggression, both indirect and direct, all over southeast Asia at the present time. To admit this country, which in addition to these things as far as the United States is concerned - his also holding prisoners, violating all the international laws, as far as we are concerned, to admit this country to the U.N., to recognize it, to raise it to the level of a respectable member of the world community would have the effect, I think, of violating, first, basic moral concepts, and, second, it would have the effect of spreading the Chinese Communist influence through the balance of Asia. Now, what should our attitude be toward the future? Our attitude should not be rigid. We cannot and should not say we will never recognize the Government that rules over this tremendous land mass in Asia and the Government which also rules over 600 million people, but we must say, if we are to maintain moral leadership in the world, if the United Nations is to mean anything, we must say that this Government cannot be admitted to the U.N., that we will not recognize it, and elevate it to the position of respectability, until it changes its policy of aggression toward the free nations and toward the peace-loving nations of the world. Once it changes its policies of aggression, then we can consider recognizing it. Until it does that, I believe it would be a great mistake. Mr. WEEKS. Elliott? Mr. ELLIOTT V. BELL (McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.). Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask you: What is your view of the proper role of Government in seeking to maintain a stable economy, specifically in the event of a business recession and the threat of growing unemployment; what actions should Government take? How promptly should it move and what should be the nature of the things it does? Vice President NIXON. May I say, incidentally, that I beg your pardon for answering the last question in such detail, but, as you can see, these editors think of questions that require speeches rather than answers. I'm not criticizing the editors. I'm only trying to explain why my answers may be in more detail than you would expect. The role of Government toward the economy is one that, of course, is an important issue in this campaign. Now, as far as the particular role of Government, where a recession is threatened, I think my views have been pretty well known, and I will reiterate them at this point. I think, first of all, that it is the responsibility of the President and his economic advisers constantly to watch the economic cycle and to anticipate as much in advance the economic trends that indicate that a downturn which could be very detrimental to the economy is coped with. The quicker you act when such a downturn is coming, the more effective that action will be. Once the downturn goes too far and once a psychological reaction sets in, where you not only have a recession in fact, but a mood recession as well, when people are depressed, when consumers, for example, are not buying, when, for example, your advertisers are not buying advertisements in your magazines, you know then that things are getting to be in bad shape. Therefore, the action must be as quick as possible. Now, what kind of action should it be? You have two schools of thought. Well, you have a number of schools but there are two schools of thought with regard to what the Government should do. There are those who suggest that what the Government should do as a recession is coming along or I would prefer to call it a downturn in the economic cycle, because we're going to continue to have them - you can't have an absolutely level economy and have a free economy, as we want it - there are those who say that the proper thing to do and the primary thing for Government to do is to move in with massive Government spending programs. I'm against that. I'm against that for this reason: Most of the massive Government spending programs that are suggested to fight recession would take effect not in time to deal with the recession, itself, but they would come into effect as far as the spending and money flowing into the economy after the recovery cycle began, and what would that mean? It would mean, in other words, that at a time when an inflationary cycle, and the danger was inflation rather than deflation, was beginning, that you would have on your hands spending programs that were adopted to meet a recession, and, therefore, what you did not want at that point. So, what kind of Government spending should be adopted as you see a recession coming along The spending should be highly selective, and it should be only for programs that will act during the period that you expect a recession to last. It must be money that can be spent, that can be fed into the economy at that point and the Government must be aggressive in spending the money at that point, but it should not, in effect, adopt policies which would say that we would spend money 2 or 3 or 4 years from now, after the recession was already passed. The second point: I believe you must use the credit functions of the Government, the fiscal policies of the Government, very imaginatively at this point, and again it is a question of using them earlier rather than late. If you wait too long, and the matter of timing is so essential here, again by lowering interest rates in order to encourage more investment in the economy - if you do that at a time when you are in the bottom of a recession, too often it has a psychological effect which just makes you go lower. So, you must move a little sooner than that if you possibly can. Then, third, there is the tax device. As far as the tax device is concerned, I believe that generally speaking when you have moved into a recessionary period that the more effective way to stimulate economic activity, more effective than huge Government spending programs, is tax reform and tax reduction. Now, this would seem also to be dangerous, but on the other hand, I believe this, for these reasons: When you are in a recession and when you want to come out of it, too often we think the way to get out of a recession, the way to get the economy going, is by expanding the public sector. These are the people who advocate spending. I don't agree with that. I think when you are in a recession the thing you should try to do is expand the private sector of the economy. Let me explain: Our gross national product is approximately $500 billion; $400 billion of our gross national product is in the private sector, leaving a hundred billion dollars in the public sector. So when you act with the credit facilities of the Government, when you act with the tax facilities, you are encouraging the expansion of the $400 billion, the larger part of your economy rather than $100 billion and it stands to reason that therefore it will mean a greater upturn. One last point I would like to make as far as recession is concerned: I think we can do some other things that will smooth out the business cycle. One in particular is with regard to unemployment compensation. I think that unemployment compensation - our unemployment compensation principles and programs - should be revised, so that we can have a more effective method. That means longer periods which the unemployment compensation covers and also standards which are more general throughout the States, so that you can have a greater cushion during a recession than we presently have. These are the devices that I would use, one, to anticipate recession and, second, to fight it as you get into it and as you get out. Mr. WEEKS. Mrs. Hickey. Mrs. HICKEY. (Ladies Home Journal). Mr. Vice President, of course, as far as these issues of the campaign concern men and women alike, but I am certain at this point I am expected to ask a question that would affect a woman's point of view, and it is this: The unprecedented activity of women in this campaign, I think indicates that we have great numbers of women politically active and experienced. Now, how do you plan to use greater numbers of these women in appointments to policy level, that is, the thinking, the planning, the higher administrative levels of your official family? Vice President NIXON. That's a good leading question, may I say. I want you to know that I'm aware of the fact that more women are eligible to vote than men. But I think one of the most interesting developments in America's political history has been the tremendous increase in the activity of women in our campaign. In our crowds yesterday - incidentally, I was not only in West Virginia, but it was a rather light day. We were only in Arkansas, Tennessee and West Virginia - but in our crowds yesterday the women outnumbered the men by about 3 to 1. They show tremendous interest. They show great understanding of the issues, and another thing: They do more work in the campaigns. The men talk; the women work. You can quote me on that, too, in the Ladies Home Journal. Now, I have a great respect for what women can contribute in policymaking positions in Government. I don't think that we have done as well as we might in using their talents, although we have made considerable progress in this administration. I speak, for example, of Mrs. Hobby's contributions, and, of course, we have at the present time the Under Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Bertha Adkins, who is a very effective public servant. I have on my own staff, for example, several women on the research side who are among the ablest of my very small team of research assistants, and, so, I have a high regard for the contributions they make. I think as we look at the Government and what the next President ought to do with regard to using various people from our society in Government, that we have to break away from any of the rigid ideas we have had in the past. Let me put it this way. I will expand the answer to your question to this extent. In the struggle in which we are engaged in the world today, America cannot afford to do less than use the best people that we have. This means that you must not, therefore, have a bias toward men as against women. You must not have a bias for one group in the society as against another. You must tap the best, whoever they are. I think that means also the best, whatever party they may belong to. I would hope that whoever becomes President, considering the fact we are in a struggle which will be just as decisive as a shooting war, that appointments must be made to policymaking positions where the world struggle is involved particularly, which tap the best brains of both parties. Now, this brings me back to your point. Where the women are concerned, we must do a better job of insisting the best women in this country in positions which they are able to fill because we have a tremendous potential resource here that has not been used adequately. I can say the same, for example, with regard to various racial groups, minority groups, within our society today. As I have often said to John Johnson, when he was going to Africa, we discussed the matter of our Foreign Service, we have to make better use, for example, and use more of our Negro citizens, in Foreign Service positions, not just in the African countries, which to a certain extent is not equality - and it's practicing segregation in effect - but in other countries as well, because we have able people, and failure to use them is not tapping the best of the whole society. So, my answer is: Of course, from a political standpoint, you expect me to say we're going to use more women, but from the standpoint of the country we ought to use more women, because otherwise we don't get the best. Mr. WEEKS. Mr. Johnson. Mr. JOHN J. JOHNSON (editor of Ebony magazine). Mr. Vice President, I should like to ask a question in the area of civil rights. I have read the planks in both party platforms and I think they are both quite strong. So, it seems to me the question is not what we are for, but how we will go about achieving it. So, I would like to know, if you are elected President, what specifically will you do to extend equal justice and equal opportunity to more of our citizens Vice President NIXON. Mr. Johnson, what I would specifically do first is to carry out the Republican platform. The Republican platform, and in this field I had special responsibility in writing that plank - I know every one of the provisions. The Republican platform is not as extreme insofar as the promises it makes in the civil rights field, but there isn't one item in that Republican platform that cannot be carried out, that won't work, that any reasonable Congress should not adopt, and that is what we need. The difficulty in the field of civil rights, as I have looked over it through the years - and both parties are at fault in this respect - is that every time they have national conventions they include in their platforms a lot of promises for action which they know cannot be carried out, and which are forgotten soon afterwards. I believe the important thing here is to first keep trust, keep faith, by keeping the platform, and in this area, as you know, we deal with voting rights, we deal with employment through the medium of the Committee on Government Contracts being expanded into a Committee which covers - and will have statutory authority - about one-fourth of all the employment in the country, directly or indirectly. Now, that deals with what we do in the field of law. In the executive branch of the Government a great deal can also be done not only where Government employment is concerned, but also through activities such as the Attorney General of the United States recently engaged in with regard to certain problems - the situation regarding sit-ins. I don't know whether all of you are aware of this. When you talk about sit-ins, people usually think of the fact that here was a very, very difficult situation. It was one where people understood it, and were hopeful that it. could he. worked out without violence, without setting a bad example to the world, and finally it goes to the courts. Now, we could have waited 3 years or so to get a Supreme Court decision on the sit-ins, and that decision eventually will come down; but the Attorney General did not wait. He called in on a voluntary basis the heads of the major chains in this country. They sat down, and the Attorney General got them voluntarily to adopt a regulation to the effect that they were going to break this barrier themselves. This is executive leadership. This is the leadership which does not wait for the law. I would say, finally, we will carry out our platform. We will do what the law can do. But we must recognize that in this field of civil rights that the need primarily is for leadership, which will anticipate what the law would have people do and which will get people to do voluntarily what the law would compel them to do against their will at a later point. And here is where the President of the United States can do a very effective job. I have very strong convictions on this subject, as you are well aware. That's why I have spoken on it in the Southern States I have visited. When I speak on civil rights, in Arkansas and Tennessee, in Virginia and the other States like that, it isn't easy. It's much easier to ignore. It's much easier to tell these people things they agree with. And I'll tell you why I speak of it. I don't speak of it because I go down there as a westerner or a northerner, who is preaching to the southerners and telling them the things that are wrong with their system. This doesn't mean anything. But the reason I speak of it is because it's the responsibility of our national leaders, recognizing that this is not just a southern problem, but a northern and western and eastern problem as well. It is the responsibility of our national leaders to lead the people, to lead them and to develop public opinion on the side of carrying out the law. Why? Because of three basic reasons: One, because it's right; two, because the United States cannot afford in this world struggle to fail to develop to the fullest the talents of 14 million of its citizens; and, three, because in the international arena we cannot afford to have a man like Khrushchev come to our shores, a man who has enslaved millions, slaughtered thousands in the streets of Hungary, and point the finger to the United States and say, "Look, you're enslaving people of this country," and I say this to any audience. I say that the next President, Democrat or Republican, should, and I think can, exert leadership which will give the people generally, men and women of good will, the kind of action, constructive action, in all of these fields, which will mean progress in education, progress in employment, and in all the other fields, which mean equality of opportunity. Mr. WEEKS. Mr. Luce. Mr. HENRY R. LUCE (editor in chief of Time, Life, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, etc.). I thought I might ask a question which would give you a chance to say something that hasn't been covered. I have in mind your acceptance speech in Chicago, in which you said that the greatest task the next President of the United States will face is to develop a new grand strategy for winning the battle of freedom for men and women, all men and women, without war. What perhaps are some of the elements of this grand new strategy, as they begin to shape up in your mind? Vice President NIXON. As far as the grand strategy for winning the battle for freedom is concerned, the first responsibility of the next President, as it has been of our present President, is to inform the people as to what the struggle is really about, and that means that our people must understand the importance of the nonmilitary aspects of this struggle. We all understand the necessity for maintaining America's military might. Any Congress will appropriate anything that a President asks it to appropriate within reason to keep up our military strength, and this is essential, because without more military strength than have those who threaten the peace, we are not able to be the guardians of the peace as we are at the present time. But the trouble is, too many people stop here. They say we will be militarily strong. We'll be good and tough at the conference table, and then we will have peace - and we might. But we are not going to win the struggle for the world because it is going to be won clearly apart from the strength that we have, no matter how tough we may be in our diplomatic policy, how resourceful, how able, how firm. What I am speaking of, of course, is that the struggle of the world is being decided in Asia, in Africa, in South America, in the Near Fast. A billion people live in this area. It is necessary for us to understand that to win this struggle we have to recognize what the Russians are doing first. We've got to counterpunch, but in addition to the counterpunch, we have to develop an offensive strategy as well. What are they doing? Well, they are attempting to win these countries. They are doing it with every device possible. The main thing they are doing is presenting to those peoples of these countries, most of whom are newly developing, all of whom have less of this world's goods than they want and need, all of whom are living virtually on subsistence with the exception of part of South America. The Russians, the Communists, come in but they don't say, "Go Communist." They don't sell it that way. They say, "You need a change. What you have is wrong. We offer change." And the Western, the free world, tells you: "Stay as you are." They fight only for the status quo. And, so, the first responsibility in developing a new strategy is for us to change our attitude. We've got to recognize that holding the line against communism, defending the free world, erecting tremendous military harriers will protect ourselves, being firm at the diplomatic table, all of these things are not enough. We have got to go in and fight the battle in Asia, and Africa, and South America, just as resourcefully, just as ably, and more resourcefully than they are. Now, how do we do this? What are the elements of this struggle? First, it is economic in character. Second, it is ideological in character. Now, as far as the economic aspects of this struggle are concerned, this means - as unpopular as this is to great numbers of people in our country - that the United States cannot leave to these people the alternative of either staying as they are in their economic development or turning to communism and paying for progress by giving up freedom. If that is the alternative they have, they're going to go with the Communists, because they are not going to stay where they are. So, therefore, we have to have an economic program, an economic program combining developmental loans, combining some grants, combining technical assistance - an economic program - and I particularly emphasize this - which will encourage private international activities and investment in this area of the world. And economic activities, I would mention one other thing, in which we get our allies in this struggle, the Germans, the French, the Italians, the Japanese, others that have now recovered from the war, others who also have ability to contribute, to get them to go with us in helping to bear the cost of this tremendous enterprise of helping these countries to develop economically. Now, the difficulty is that too many people stop here, too. They say, the answer to communism in Asia, in Africa and South America, is a huge new Marshall plan. Pour out the money, 5, 10, 20 billion dollars more. This is the answer. But it isn't the answer. It is wrong. It is just as wrong to give to a newly developing country that doesn't know how to use money 2 or 3 million dollars a year without providing the technical assistance so that they know how to spend it as it is to leave them where they are. And, so, what we must do, in addition to providing funds, under the circumstances that I have mentioned, we have got to recognize that it is our responsibility, with our allies, with the U.N. with new confederations that may be set up, to train the people who can develop the economies and run these countries. Take the Congo: Twelve people in the Congo, it is said, with a college degree. How can you expect a group like that to take this tremendously rich area and be able, one, to run a government; two, to run an economy, however much money you give them? And so we need a greatly broadened educational program, a technical assistance program, which will train men in the field of government, which will train them in the field of running an economy. They want it. They're willing to have it. This must not be unilateral in character where we can avoid it because then it looks as if we are doing this solely for ourselves, solely for our own self-interest to extend our power and domination. That is not why we are doing it. We're doing it for them. We must make it clear that we're doing it for their interests and the interests ultimately will be in the interests of ourselves and the free peoples everywhere. So, technical assistance comes along. Now, the third point that is made is in the so-called ideological struggle to which I referred. This is a lot harder to explain, a lot harder to justify before any kind of an audience, but we must remember that what communism really offers the world today, what it has made its great gains on, has not been in the economic assistance it has poured out. It has poured out very little as a matter of fact compared to what we have done. It has not been in its military strength in many respects, certainly in recent years, but it has been in the power of its ideological appeal. Here we have not done as effective a job as we can. This is not just a question of a bigger USIA. It is a question of quality. It is a question of understanding, again, what we are fighting for, what we present to these countries, and it is to that point I would like to talk for just a second before I conclude. The greatest mistake we make is to present our case in Asia, in Africa, in Latin America, as being one in which we are helping them to fight communism. Now, we're helping them for that reason because certainly if the Communists came, we know that would be worse than what they have today. But these people do not want to be pawns in a world struggle. What they are interested in is in their own future, and, so, therefore, the United States must present to these people, to all the world, we and our allies, must present this particular picture of a people who are wanting to help these people of Asia and Africa and the newly developing countries, not because we're fighting somebody else, but because we're helping them, because we're helping them in a traditional American idea of having compassion for people who do not have as much as we have, of being concerned about poverty and misery and disease, just because it is poverty and misery and disease. This is what people have to understand. When they know that, then we will have appeal. And then we combine that, this concern for their problem, a concern which is expressed not only by Government, but by private organizations as well - we combine that, in addition, with a strong program in which the people of these countries, through exchange and otherwise, understand what we really have to offer insofar as the differences in Government appeal. And I refer here to the fact that communism comes promising independence, promising freedom, promising plenty, but produces none of them. We come promising these people so they can have progress, but at the same time retaining freedom. Freedom means very little to them at the present time, but the fact it means very little now doesn't mean that it should not mean something, and for us to make our case, economically, solely on the basis of materialism is the greatest mistake we could make. We have got to get some idealism into our people. Now, how do you do this from the standpoint of the Executive? I have already indicated - I'm going to spell it out more in the campaign - that I think we need within the executive branch of the Government a reorganization of all of the activities that deal with this nonmilitary struggle - the economic, the information, all of those activities that deal with the battle of ideas, the technical assistance - drawn together into one compact striking force under the direction, as I have tried to divide it, the Vice President of the United States, reporting directly to the President, and then on a day-by-day, week-by-week, month-by-month basis, fighting this battle aggressively. Fighting it for what? Well, of course, in the long run for the interests of the United States, for our freedom, because who wins this part of the world wins the whole world; but, as far as our aim is concerned, and what we must present to the world, we must fight it, having in mind the fact that we are concerned about the future of these people, that we are concerned about their freedom, about their progress, and that whether there was any communism in the world or not, we would still be concerned. If we can present the case that way, if we can be tough-minded, realistic, but at the same time have a heart in our international relations, we will win against the Communists, because we will win for the fundamental reason that we're on the right side and they're on the wrong side. But we have to present the case better than we have done in the past.
Thank you very much, Senator Saltonstall, for a very gracious and generous introduction. As a matter of fact, as I stand before this great audience here in Boston, my heart and Pat's are full of thanks for making this one of the greatest days of campaigning that we've ever experienced. I know you've been reading something about this campaign. We've had some tremendous crowds. We went down to Birmingham, Ala., and had 100,000 people there. We went over to Atlanta, Ga., and had 200,000 there. The crowds in Hawaii and San Francisco and Portland were recordbreaking. In the Twin Cities, in Minneapolis and St. Paul, 150,000 to 175,000 people, late on a Saturday afternoon. But nobody dreamed, and I least of all, that we would come into the home State of our opponent and break the record and have a quarter of a million people on the streets. Well, all I can say to our opponents who have been taking this State for granted, and to some of our Republican friends who have been conceding it, is that we're going to give them the fight of their lives here in Massachusetts. And one of the reasons we're going to be able to do that is because of the men you have seen introduced here tonight. I could spend all the time up until 3 minutes of 10, when I have to quit because of television commitments, talking about these men, how I know them. Lev Saltonstall - you have said so much through the years by your votes that there is little I can add. But this is the theme I would like to bring home to the voters of Massachusetts. I know him on the national scene. He talks about my contributions in the meetings with the President, and I know his. He doesn't talk very often, but when he does he really hits the nail on the head. And I want to say this - I know that there's a slogan running around Massachusetts to the effect that Massachusetts needs Lev Saltonstall. I want to change it. I want to change it to "America needs Lev Saltonstall in the Senate." We need him there, and we need his lovely wife there with the Senate ladies, too. I have had an opportunity, of course, to see many candidates around the country, State tickets, and I can tell you that the Republicans here in Massachusetts can be proud of the fact that there isn't a slate any place in the Nation, Democrat of Republican, that is of higher quality, or made up of better campaigners, than this group. You can win with this group if you go out and work with them. You can win. There's no question about it. And I'm just glad I'm on the ticket with them. I'm glad I have their support, and whatever it may be worth, I'm delighted to lend whatever support I have to them. Because when we look at this State, when we look at the conditions that were just described here a moment ago, I say that the people of Massachusetts - Republicans and Democrats and independents - have had enough of what they've been having and they want to reestablish in this State the standards of honesty and integrity and decency of our great Secretary of State, Chris Herter, and Lev Saltonstall - the kind of government they gave to Massachusetts. And John Volpe and his team will do that. Then there's so much I would like to say about my congressional colleagues. I call them my colleagues because I was first in the Congress, and I often go over and spend time with them. Joe Martin had to leave a little earlier, but we have Larry Curtis here who is from this area, and all the rest. I can only say this - too often in presidential campaigns people can get terribly excited about the top spot, and they don't pay too much attention to the spots down the line. Remember, we need Senators, we need Congressmen, we need people in the State offices, we need them in the State legislatures, up and down the line. I'm proud of the fine candidates for Congress here, and I think we ought to give them a hand, too, while we are passing the accolades around. Now, I've been speaking about the crowds. We had a light day today. We started in New York and then went over to Vermont for a rally there, and then over to New Hampshire for a rally, and then came over here for a rally, and I guess we get to sleep here tonight, don't we? Well, that's pretty good. Anyway, every day we've been having these tremendous crowds. We've seen excitement in the eyes and faces of people. We have noted that in the crowds are not only Republicans who are partisans, but Democrats and independents who are supporting our cause, and one question that is often asked me by people I meet who want comments on the campaign, is this - They say, "What are people interested in? What's the great issue? What's the unifying issue?" I've been all the way from Maine - I guess you call that down East here - to Hawaii, which is in the far, Far West. I've been in the South and I've been in the North, and in the Midwest, and in California, Oregon, and Washington - all of these States in the space of a couple of weeks. There are differences in these States. I've been before labor groups and farm groups and business groups and there are differences among them, and in their attitudes on issues. But there is one unifying concern that united them all. You know what it is? Oh, they're interested in jobs. They're interested in good income on the farms. They're interested in better schools and hospitals and health. They're interested, as we all must be, in making America's dreams of equality of opportunity for all a reality, so that men like Mr. Khrushchev can't come over here and point a finger at us, as he did at the United Nations a few days ago but above all, as much as people are interested - from their special groups or their special sections - in other issues, they know the most important thing is to be around to enjoy the solutions to our domestic issues. They know, in other words as Lev Saltonstall has already implied, that the great issue before America is which of the candidates for the Presidency, which of the candidates for the Vice Presidency, can furnish the leadership which will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world. Now, in the time that remains tonight, I would like to talk about that issue and the issues that are related to it. Obviously, I'm a little prejudiced about which team can do it, and I'll have more to say about my colleague when we go on television here on the program which is to follow. As far as the record and as far as the experience is concerned, we'll leave that for the moment. I will come back to it later. Now where the program is concerned, there are certain things that Cabot Lodge and I stand for, things that I can only summarize, but things that need to be emphasized and reemphasized over and over again. First, we are men who know those who threaten the peace of the world. We have met them. We have dealt with them. We know the kind of men they are. And I can tell you that they are men who - as you know, because you had an opportunity to see them recently at the United Nations - are ruthless. They are men who are fanatically dedicated to what is wrong. They are men who are convinced that they're going to win. They are men who respect power and who do not play the international game according to the rules of the game and, therefore, we cannot have in the Presidency or the Vice Presidency people who do not understand the situation. We must have leadership, which will develop programs which will deal with the kind of men who threaten the peace of the world. Now, what kind of programs are they? We begin with one essential, and that's power - military power, first of all. Lev Saltonstall should talk on this question. He is one of the great experts on it in the U.S. Senate - in the country, for that matter. The statement was made that we're the strongest nation in the world. This is true, but we can't be satisfied with just staying there, because the world changes. They are moving and I can assure you, and it is our pledge as we run in this campaign, that we will keep America the strongest nation in the world, and whatever it may cost, we will ask the American people to pay for it because we believe this is essential.  We need this strength - why? Not because we want to use it aggressively. Not because we want to dominate anybody else in the world but because we are the guardians of peace, and as the guardians of peace we must have the power to discourage those who threaten the peace. It's just as simple as that. We must also have the power that will discourage those who threaten the peace from ever being in a position where at a diplomatic conference they'll be looking down the throats of those who represent the United States. So, you can see how we feel on this issue, and I think you can trust us on what we will do on it. A second point: if America is to win this struggle for peace without surrender, if we are to win it, and win the struggle for extending freedom throughout the world, we also are going to have to be economically strong and powerful. How strong does this mean? It means maintaining the strength we presently have. It means maintaining the gap which presently exists between the Soviet economy and ours. We're over twice as productive as they are today. But, on the other hand, here again we're in a race. I remember Mr. Khrushchev saying, when we were in Moscow:  We're going to catch you, we're going to pass you by, and when we go by you, we're going to wave, and say, "Come on, follow us, do as we do or you'll fall hopelessly behind." He said he was going to catch us in 7 years. What's the answer? The answer is he will not catch us, not in 7 years or 70 years, provided we remain true to the principles that have made America the richest, the strongest, the most productive nation in the world today. What are those principles? They are the principles that have been in force in this administration. But you've heard the charge made by our opponents, that America has been standing still. Let me tell you, my friends, anybody who says America has been standing still in these last 8 years hasn't been traveling in America. He's been traveling in some other country. That's all that I can say. You go around this country and see - see the progress. And if you want to make a comparison, compare the 7½ Eisenhower years with the 7½ Truman years before. Take any index. Schools? Well, we built more in 7 years than they did in 20. Hospitals? More hospitals than they ever built. Wages? Wages have gone up five times as much as they went up in that administration, and prices have gone up one-fifth as much. And so, we find the average American worker, 67 million strong, 15 percent better off in this administration as compared with 2 percent in the 7 Truman years. By any index you take, you find that America has grown. It has grown more prosperous, more strong in these years. We haven't been standing still. Is this enough? Again, my answer is - "No." It isn't enough because, again, we're in a race, as I have described. And America must continue to grow, continue to grow at every possible speed because, unless we do, when you're in a race those who are attempting to catch up may pass us. So, I pledge in this field that we will continue to present in the future programs which will rely not on sending every problem to Washington, but which will say that Washington should do those things that can't or won't be done at the State level or the individual level - programs which, above all, will be based on the principle that the greatest engine of progress in America is not government, but people - 180 million individual Americans. Now of course, there are those who might say: "We've been reading the papers, Mr. Nixon; we've been looking at television, and as far as your programs for progress and the pledges for progress are concerned, we hear that your opponents say they're going to outdo you." Now, let's look at their record for just a moment - the record that they made in the last session of the Congress. They have a performance gap. Let's call it that for the moment. It's about as wide as the missile gap they left us at the beginning of this administration, and which we've been closing ever since under the leadership of President Eisenhower. Let's look at what I would like to call the Kennedy Congress. Look at it - two Democrats to one Republican in that Congress. Look at it - the party standard bearer just back from the national convention, eager to prove his mettle, the majority leader of the Senate - well, he was trying to prove something. I don't know what, but he was there. The veteran Speaker of the House, he was trapped by all this, and so he had to help, too, and so with this enormous legislative power, more power than ever before existed in leaders and in a legislative power in the United States - what happened? Oh, they labored, yes. They talked. But what did they produce? They promised a 25-percent minimum wage increase in place of the program that President Eisenhower asked for and that could have been passed and should have been passed. What did the workers get? Nothing at all. They promised Federal aid to education, a bill which was extreme rather than the one that President Eisenhower asked for that would have done something for our schools that needed to be done. What did they get? Nothing at all. A huge Federal housing program. Did they get that through? Not at all. I could go on down the line, but let me in summary say this. When you look at that session of the Congress, it was a monumental failure, and I say a monumental failure is no recommendation for leadership for the United States of America today. The leadership default of a month ago in the Congress is a pretty weak reed on which to base claim for the biggest job in the world. High hopes? Yes. High spirits, lofty expressions - these are great. We have them, too. They are all commendable, but they are a poor substitute for solid performance, and on performance they haven't produced and they can't produce and wont - Why? Because they would go back, go back to policies that we left in 1953. You've heard about these new frontiers. We all travel to new frontiers. America is a young country. It will never grow old, but if we are going to travel to new frontiers, we've got to travel bearing in mind again that the source of our strength are people, individual enterprise, and Government must always recognize this in its programs. And we must recognize it as far as the devices are concerned that they would use to cross these new frontiers. What are they? Not new programs. Not programs as old as those we left in 1953. We're not going to go back to that. We're not going to go back to policies that would lead to inflation, as theirs would. We're not going to go back to Government controls, as theirs would in many fields. I would say in looking at this Kennedy Congress that it rejected Senator Kennedy, and America said ''No'' to his proposals. That's why the Congress did what it did, and America is going to say "No" to him on November the 8th for the very same reason - because the proposals are wrong and out of step with what the American people think. Now, I have much more left to say, but I have only a few minutes before you have to listen to me on television. What I would like to say before the television goes on is just this. I know what it takes to put on a dinner like this. I remember when I came into the hotel a few minutes ago I asked some people, "Are you coming to the dinner?" They said "No - we couldn't get in." And I couldn't believe my ears - couldn't get into a dinner at $100 a plate - couldn't get in. And then I see people sitting way over here in the corner, poor chairs, and I see people way over there who can't even see the speaker. The problem is not me - they ought to be able at least to see Pat. When I think of that, when I think of all you have contributed, your time and your efforts, when I think of the work of Tom Pappas, Lloyd Waring, and all the rest of you, I can only say our hearts are very full and that Pat and I can only hope that in these weeks ahead - and they will be hard ones because we're campaigning this country as it's never been campaigned before - 50 States - and, believe me, that's a job - but I'll say we will never forget the reception we had in Boston on this 29th day of September. We will never forget this dinner - and most of all, we will never forget your generosity, your friendship, your patience. We only hope we can be worthy of it both before and after the election. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, Governor Rockefeller, Senator Morton, Senator Goldwater, all of those attending these great Republican dinners around the country, after such an introduction there is very little I could say that could add, and I will only make this statement in this respect: That there will never be a prouder moment in my life than to have been so introduced by the President of the United States, as we have been introduced tonight. I want to thank him, and I'm going to have more to say about him in a moment, but all who have participated in these dinners, the speakers, those who sold the tickets, those who bought the tickets, for your wonderful contribution to the success of this evening. You make those of us who are candidates - and, of course, not only the presidential and the vice presidential candidates will share in what you have been able to do - very aware of the responsibility that we have, and we trust that we will be worthy of it during the weeks ahead. Referring to what the President has said, there are these thoughts that come to mind: 8 years ago I remember a great rally right here in Boston, and I know this audience remembers, here in the Boston Armory. It was the closing rally of the campaign. It was a tremendously exciting event, and I remember the themes of that rally. That was an election campaign, you will recall, in which the two presidential candidates both agreed there was a mess in Washington. The question was: Which of the two candidates could best clean it up? And, of course, the American people, in their fine judgment, made the right decision. Now the question today is a different one. Senator Kennedy, in a speech at Detroit a couple of weeks ago, stated that this is the greatest country in the world, but it can be greater, that this is the most prosperous country in the world, but it can be more prosperous, that this is a strong country, but that it can be stronger, and, so, we've come a long way since 1952. We're not talking about a mess, but we're talking about the greatest country, the most prosperous country, a strong country, and who can make it greater and more prosperous and stronger, and all that I can say is this: I say that the American people are not going to turn to a man and his party who made the mess 8 years ago. They are going to turn to us. They are going to build this new, greater, stronger America with the proved leadership, the leadership that the President has so eloquently and generously described. Now if I could turn to that leadership in terms of the great issue that I have found in this campaign, but before speaking of that issue I simply must share with our national audience a thought that I earlier passed on to this audience here. We've had some great crowds in this campaign up to this time. We've traveled, as you know, to many of the States in which these dinners are being held, and, as I said when we came into Boston tonight, with the rain falling, about 5:30, almost an hour behind time, we found in the home city and State of our opponent the biggest crowd of the Campaign - a quarter of a million people were here to welcome us. And I serve notice here, as I do to the whole country, that things are happening. They are happening here, and neither this State nor any other one do we concede. We're going to fight for every one of them right down to November 8. Several of the speakers who preceded me on this program have spoken of what is the great issue of the campaign. We all agree what it is. The American people are, of course, concerned about a number of things, and rightly so. They want government in which they can have better jobs and housing and schools. They want progress in those essential fields which have been referred to by the previous speakers. But, above all, our people know that all the progress at home will be worth nothing unless we're around to enjoy it. They realize that, for that reason, the major test that must be met by the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency is that of leadership in the field of foreign affairs. The major test to which the people of the country are putting the candidates today is this: Which by experience, by background, by judgment, by record, of the candidates for President and Vice President can best continue the leadership of Dwight Eisenhower and keep the peace without surrender for America and extend freedom throughout the world Now in just a few words, I want to state our case as I have stated it to audiences all over this country. We offer first our record. It's a record we're proud of. Cabot Lodge and I, as the President has indicated, have served in his administration. We have had an opportunity to participate in the discussions leading to great decisions. We have had an opportunity to see him make great decisions, one that avoided war on the ore side and surrender on the other. I know there are those who criticize the record of this administration in the field of foreign policy; but, my friends, all the criticisms in the world, even that that is heated up in a political campaign, can't obscure the truth, and the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for ending one war, keeping the Nation out on other wars, and bringing us peace without surrender today. So Cabot Lodge and I submit our record, and we're proud of it, and we present it to the American people. We submit also our experience. It is not appropriate for me to refer to my experience, particularly after the President has done it so well, but I can say something about my running mate and I want to do it in his own State. I want to say this: That the great issue here and the great problem, of course, is dealing with the men in the Kremlin and their colleagues, and I say that no man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Cabot Lodge as our Ambassador to the United Nations over the last 7 ½ years; and I assure this great audience that he and I will work together as colleagues, work together in the cause of peace, to strengthen the instruments of peace like the United Nations and the Organization of American States, to develop such new instruments as may be necessary to extend freedom and to extend peace, but working together, having in mind the great experience that we have had of working with the President of the United States, Dwight Eisenhower. This is the leadership which we offer to the American people. What program? We will, of course, continue to keep America as she is today, the strongest nation in the world militarily, and this we pledge to the American people. We will continue policies, and build upon them, that will make America the strongest, most productive nation, as far as its economy is concerned, recognizing that when we're in a race we can never be satisfied with staying where we are, but that we must move ahead in science, in education, in the productivity of our people, but always recognizing that the way to progress in America is not through turning everything over to the Federal Government in the first instance, but through the Federal Government adopting policies and programs that will stimulate the creative energies of 180 million free Americans. What kind of diplomatic policies will we follow? They will be the policies of firmness without belligerence. We will always be willing to go the extra mile, as President Eisenhower has been willing to go it, to negotiate, negotiate with honor, but always standing by the principles of freedom and standing by our friends everyplace in the world. We will be willing to go that extra mile, but we will always stand for the right - and you can be sure that, like President Eisenhower, we will never think of apologizing for attempting to defend the freedom of the United States against surprise attack. And we make another pledge to you: We will do our part in seeing that the ideals of America are kept strong because we know that this is basically a war of ideals. It will be decided in that area. We know that all that the Kremlin has to offer is military strength, sheer atheistic materialism, and that America must never forget that our strength is not simply and only in our military strength and our economic productivity, but it is in our ideals. They are worth restating: Faith in God; recognition of the dignity of men and women, regardless of their race, creed, or color, or their background; recognition of the great principles of freedom for all men, that belong not just to us, but to people everywhere; recognition of the right of all people to be independent, as we are independent. These are principles for which America has stood since the time of her foundation. These are the ideals that will win the struggle for peace and freedom, and these are the ideals we will stand for if you, the people listening to me, if the American people, will do your part in strengthening the moral and spiritual fiber of this Nation as well. And, so with that, may I say again to the thousands listening at these dinners across the country that, as Pat and I sit here in Boston tonight, after a long day of campaigning, we are deeply humble in your presence. We know what you have done, and we intend to be worthy of what you have done - not only in the fight that we put on in this campaign, but also in winning this election, in attempting to carry on in the great traditions of one of the truly great men of the century, Dwight D. Eisenhower, the President of the United States.
Speaking to you here in the State, speaking to you particularly as a State that traditionally votes Republican, I would like to present the case for our national ticket, not just on Republican lines. That would be the easiest thing to do. I know that in this audience are people who are predominantly Republican. I know that in this State that a Republican vote, if it were on the straight party line, would assure victory for us, but I urge the people of Vermont, just as I urge the people of States in which there are Democratic majorities, when electing a President of the United States, to think not of your party label first, but of the country first.  Why do I say that? I say that because both of our major parties have contributed great Presidents to this country. I say that because in the struggle in which we are engaged in the world today, to which Bob Stafford so effectively referred, that America must send nothing but its best leadership into that struggle. I say that because I want you to consider what I have to present in terms of what America needs, not simply n terms of what you believe your party affiliations would dictate. So, for the next few moments as I talk to you, I would like you to forget, if you will, how your fathers voted and your grandfathers and how you traditionally have voted and I would like you to think of America. I would like for you to think of our team, the Nixon-Lodge team, its qualifications, its experience, its background, its program and see whether that's what America needs. Now, point No.1: What is the issue that you should think about I Obviously we can't discuss them all and I'm going to discuss here, as I have in other States, first, the most important issue of all. That is the one to which Bob Stafford referred. I know some people raise a question about international affairs and they say, "Now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. That's a long way off - Africa, Asia, the Soviet Union, and the rest. Aren't people really more concerned about things that are closer to home, more concerned about their schools and their hospitals and their housing and the milk industry and all these things?" And the answer is: Yes, people are terribly concerned about the problems that affect their families. They want better jobs and better housing and better schools income on the farm, which will be a fair share of this Nation's increasing prosperity. All these things our people want, but the American people also, above everything else, want to be around to enjoy the good things of life that we have on the domestic scene and, therefore, the most important qualification that the next President of the United States must have is this: Who can best keep the peace without surrender for America and the world and extend freedom throughout the world? Now, obviously, I'm a bit prejudiced on that score, but I would like to set our case before you, if I might. First, we present to you our record. Both Cabot Lodge and I have been a part of that record. For 7½ years we have worked with the President of the United States. We have sat in the meetings of the Cabinet. We have sat in the meetings of the National Security Council. I have participated in the discussions on the great decisions on Quemoy and Matsu and Lebanon and the others that the President has made during these last 7½ years. And you know the record of Cabot Lodge in the United Nations. So, I would say that as you look at this record of ours it is one with which we are associated; it's one by which you must judge us, and I want to tell you today I'm proud of it in all fields, but I'm particularly proud of it in the field of international affairs. Oh, there are things wrong. The critics say everything is wrong. They point to what they say is the lack of prestige of America around the world. They say that we're slipping militarily and economically and otherwise around the world. They say we made a mistake here diplomatically and a mistake there diplomatically. But, you know, when you look at the whole record of the Eisenhower administration in the field of foreign policy, they can't obscure the results - and the results the American people are very grateful for, and they are these: Under President Eisenhower's leadership, we ended one war; we kept the Nation out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and all Americans are proud of that. But the record isn't the only test. The record isn't something to stand on. It's something to build on. We realize that this great struggle in which we're engaged is not one that is won by what one administration does, by what one President may do or how he leads the country. It is a continuing struggle. It's one in which we are confronted with fanatical adversaries; men dedicated, working fanatically, not simply to hold their own, not simply to keep communism in the Soviet Union or in Communist China or in the satellite countries, but to extend it, to conquer the world, and they intend to do this by any means necessary, without war, as Mr. Khrushchev says - they feel they may be able to do it - if possible. But this is the adversary we face, and when you have that kind of opposition America can't stand still. We can't be satisfied with our military strength, with our diplomatic policy, with all the programs we have developed to keep the peace in the world. We can't be satisfied with them because they are moving and we must always move so that we stay ahead. So, therefore, I say we don't stand on the record. We don't say just because we are part of the record you must vote for us. We say look to what we will do in the future, what are our qualifications. Well, obviously, it would be presumptuous for me to talk about my qualifications - that's for you to judge - but I can talk about my running mate's, and I want to say this about him: You folks up here in Vermont, with your tremendous interest in the UN - you know something of what he has done there, and I think I can say, without fear of contradiction from too many people, that no man in the world today has had more experience or has done a more effective job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. And I tell you, as I have told other audiences, that he is going to be a working Vice President, as I have been; he is going to participate in the councils of this Government. But, more than that, we shall work as partners in the cause of peace and freedom, strengthening the instruments of peace like the United Nations and the Organization of American States, developing new instruments as they may be necessary which will hold the line for peace, but which will also be designed to strengthen freedom. And, so, this is my second point: Experience; record; and now we come to the third-program. What do we believe in? What do we stand for? What do I say the American people must be prepared to do if we're going to keep the peace, if we're going to extend freedom? The first thing I want to mention is this: It's the point that Bob Stafford made in his introduction. Dealing with the kind of men we are, fanatical, dedicated to what is wrong, we must remember that they are people who respect strength and have contempt for weakness. They respect military strength; they respect economic strength; they also respect strength of ideas, and they have contempt for weakness militarily, diplomatically, economically, or any other way. So, point No. 1: America must be strong, strong militarily. How strong? We must be stronger than any other nation. Why? Not because we ever want to use our strength to accomplish anything in terms of aggression, because we do not, but because America is the guardian of the peace and as long as we are stronger than any other nation we can discourage any of those who would threaten the peace of the world. So, this is point No.1. We will keep America strong. We will ask the American people to pay whatever is necessary to see that that level of strength is maintained, and we are confident they will do so. The second point: We have to see that America remains economically strong and that refers to all sections of the country. It refers to all parts of our population. Economically strong - why? Because the race in which we're engaged, you see, is not just military in character. There's a tremendous competition going on between the economies. I remember when I was talking to Mr. Khrushchev in Moscow. He said to me, "You know, Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now economically. I'll admit that. But," he said, "we're moving faster than you." He said, "We're going to catch up with you in 7 years or so, and we're going to pass you by, and when we pass you by we're going to wave like this and say, 'Come on; join us and follow us and do as we do or you're going to fall way behind in this race.'" So, the question arises: How right is he? The answer is: He's completely wrong on two scores: One, because his system has basic defects in it, which I could point out; but, more than that, he is wrong because he underestimates the basic strength of the American people and our economy. He won't catch us in 7 years. He won't catch us in 70 years, provided we remain true to the principles that have made America the most prosperous Nation in the world. What are those principles? Turning everything over to the Federal Government? No. Tremendously increased Federal spending programs to move in on every problem in which we are involved and to set up those programs in preference to ones that have been set up by the States or by the local communities or by individuals? No. The answer to progress in America is not to rely primarily on what the Federal Government does. The answer to progress in America is to strengthen the real source of progress. And you know what it is? A hundred and eighty million free individual Americans. This is the answer to progress in this country. Now, the Federal Government has responsibilities. Militarily, that's the Federal Government's job. In the economic area it must adopt economic policies and fiscal policies and other policies which will stimulate and encourage our people to do their best and to make their tremendous contribution to this country's growth. But, beyond that, when we get into the economy itself, and the workings of the economy, we must never forget that the role of government is not to supplant, but to supplement what the individual, the States, the local governments can do best. If we remember this rule, we will find that America will move forward, that we will tap all the energies of our people - and it is here that we will move more than our opponents will move because they turn always to the Federal Government.  Let me give you an example. After our television debate a couple of days ago, one individual was questioning me with regard to the problem of how much money the Federal Government would spend, and he was saying: "You know, it's really rather hard, isn't it, to go up against an opponent when he says, 'We're going to spend $13 to $18 billion carrying out our promises to the people,' and you say 'We're going to spend $3 to $4 billion or $4 or $5 billion to carry out your program to the people.'" In other words, the argument goes like this: "You're running for the Presidency. The stakes are high. Why do you allow somebody else to promise more than you promise? Why don't you raise him? He promises he's going to spend $14 billion of Federal money to deal with the problems of the people. Why don't you spend 20?" Well, of course, he would raise me and go to 30, and I would have to go to 40, and we'd go on up and up and up, and the people would have nothing left at all. That's the reason you can't go into this business of trying to buy the people's votes with their own money. You see, these promises that they make - they don't pay them off with their money, but with yours. That is what the American people must know. And I know something about what it means to meet a family budget. I have seen people come into my dad's store when I was working in it growing up in grade school and high school, and I've seen housewives shop around, not buying strawberries when they were out of season, buying stew meat rather than steak or even a rump roast, which was a little higher, counting all the things which meant at the end of the month the bill might be within the family budget, and I know that every time we spend a dollar in Washington that isn't necessary that it makes it more difficult to balance that family budget. And, so, I say to you that it is the responsibility of the President of the United States not to go around the country saying, "I'm going to do this, that, or the other thing," to this special group or that special group or the other special group. He's got to think of all the American people, and he must be the guardian of the people's money, and that's why I say we are going to see to it that America's Government spends every cent that it needs to spend, but not 1 cent more than it needs to spend so that our people can have what they need to balance their own budget. So, I have said now that we will keep our country economically strong. I should mention also the other element of strength to which Bob Stafford referred, ideological strength. Sometimes people have said to me, "Now, look here, Mr. Nixon, you know this fellow Khrushchev is a Communist. Do you really think ideological strength, the moral and spiritual strength to which you have referred in speeches means anything Doesn't he have utter contempt for that? Isn't it an admission of weakness whenever you refer to it?" And do you know what the answer is? The answer is that the tyrants of all time, the militarists and the materialists have always made a fatal error. They have underestimated the moral and spiritual strength that free peoples have, and I say to you today that the decisive element in this struggle, more decisive than our military and economic strength, as important and vital, that is, is the strength of America's ideals. Let me give you an example. I remember when Pat and I visited Poland a year ago. I recall the reception that we had. There were people in the streets, like there were today as we came through. They were enthusiastic, as this crowd was, there, but they hadn't been ordered out. There had been no parade route printed in the papers. The Communist Polish Government had not wanted to have an unfavorable comparison between our reception and the one Khrushchev got 2 weeks before in the same city of Warsaw, and yet a quarter of a million Poles were on the streets, shouting at the top of their voices, singing, and as the car stopped in the middle of the city, throwing hundreds of bouquets of flowers into our car. I looked into their faces. Some of them were smiling, but just as many, men and women, grown men and women, crying with tears coming down their cheeks. Why? I Not because we were strong militarily or economically. Khrushchev had bragged of that kind of strength, but because America - to the people of Poland behind the Iron Curtain - stood for something different from military strength and material strength. We stood for ideals. We stood for faith in God, for belief in the dignity of man, for belief in the rights of man; that these rights come not from men but from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away by any man; that America stood for the hope of all people in the world to be independent, to he free, and to live in peace. That's what we came into the world for 185 years ago. This is America's destiny - not to conquer the world with our arms, not to conquer the world and overwhelm it with our wealth; but it is America's destiny to lead the world, to inspire it with the power of our ideas. And how can we do that? Oh, a President can talk about that, and he can help to lead, but that kind of strength, my friends, must come from the people, themselves. It comes from the home. It comes from the schools. It comes from the churches of our country, and it comes from you. And I say to all of you here, in this State, with its great tradition of individual enterprise and responsibility: Strengthen the moral fiber of our country. This is what you can do to help us in this struggle. Teach our young people to have appreciation of what it means to be an American. Teach them that it isn't unfashionable to have patriotism, love of country in the best sense, the kind of love of a country where we point out the things that are wrong, but that we also recognize the things that are right, and we never downgrade America. You don't, after all, have to tear America down in order to build her up. And these are the things that you can do to help in this struggle. So, the final point I would make is this: I think we are going to win this struggle for peace and freedom. We're going to win it, I tell you, for reasons that are rather difficult to describe, but 55 countries Pat and I have visited in the last 7½ years as the representatives of the people of the United States and of our country. We've been behind the iron curtain, in the heart of the Urals, in the heart of Siberia. We've been is Asia, Africa, and South America, and Europe, and in the faces of countless thousands of people I have seen that the people of the world are not so much on our side, but that we are on the right side, the side of freedom, and the people want freedom, the side of peace, the side of progress, but progress not at the cost of freedom, but with freedom. This they want, if they only know, and since we are representing the right side, America can win, we can lead, if we have leadership that is experienced and courageous and able and vital in this period. That's what we offer. We don't say we will solve all of your problems easily. We don't say it will not cost in terms of money potentially something for the American people militarily or otherwise to meet our responsibilities, but we do say this: My colleague and I have faith in our country, faith in our cause, and we also believe that it can and will prevail if America will assume the responsibilities of leadership which are ours in the world today. So, to these young people here I say: This future can be the brightest that the world has ever seen. We've heard so much about what a bad future our young people are growing up into - the threat of atomic war, all of the problems of the Communists stirring up trouble in Tokyo, Caracas, and around the world - but look at the other side of it. For the first time in the history of civilization, as Arnold Toynbee said - for the first time in the history of civilization - man can realize what has been the dream of men, of poets, of idealists for centuries, and that is the dream of a world in which everybody can have enough to eat, clothing, housing and the like. Why? The breakthroughs of our scientists; the tremendous productivity of our farms here and abroad. So, we must use this power, and it is our responsibility, and the most exciting responsibility that leaders have ever had to use this power that we have for good, and I'm confident we can. And it is on that we ask for your support, because we believe in this cause, because we want the opportunity to serve you, but, more than that, because we want the opportunity to serve the cause for which America stands. So, finally, my appeal to you is this: I said at the outset that I would not ask you to vote for us because we happen to be Republicans, and you may be, and so again I say to you: Consider what I have said. Consider the things I stand for. Consider the great problems confronting America and the world, and then in your hearts decide: What does America need? Is this the kind of leadership she needs? If you believe it's the kind of leadership it needs, then I ask you: Go out in this great State of Vermont and work for us, for our colleagues here, but work as you never have before, for this reason: Not because you're just working for a man, not because you're working for a party that is your party, but you're working for a greater cause - for America and for the ideas that America stands for. This is what we ask you to do, and we thank you for considering our case.
On an occasion like this, as you can imagine, a speaker is confronted with a real problem as to what people most want to hear him talk about. Here's a great crowd of people from this State, from this city. Some of you have driven several miles to get here. All of you have come here when you could have been doing other things that were useful. Some of you are interested in one issue more than in others and, of course, the time that we have won't permit discussion of them all; and, so, as I look over this crowd, as I think of your interests, of your future, I have to select - and I want to select - today that issue which is closest to your hearts, and particularly the one that concerns your future and the future of your children. I think you know what it is. It is the future as far as our ability to enjoy the good things of life that we see in this community, in this State, in this Nation. We all want, of course, Government under which we can have progress, in which we have good jobs, and I was tremendously impressed to note the progressive scene in this very area here, in the Manchester area, the new businesses, as I came along, that have been established since I came here before. This shows the individual enterprise, the strong will of the people of this State and of this section. You're interested in Government in which we can have better schools and better housing, better health for our people. All of these things are immensely important, and particularly those of you who are parents, as Pat and I are, are concerned about our children, thinking in terms of their future and wanting for them, as my father did and as yours did, a better life than we've had - and yet, when we think of all these things, as close and as dear as they are to us, we know the most important thing is to be around to enjoy them. That has been brought home to us very acutely by this session of the United Nations. We see Mr. Khrushchev down there in the United Nations today. A report just came over the wire that he shook his fist at Mr. Macmillan, Prime Minister Macmillan, and walked off the floor of the United Nations. And, so, as we think of him, as we think of those who threaten the peace and the freedom of the world, we realize that that is the great issue. We realize that the most important question that the people of New hampshire, the people of America must answer in this election Campaign: Which of the candidates for the Presidency, for the Vice Presidency, are best qualified, by experience, by judgment and background, to lead America and the free world, to keep the peace without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world. Now, in discussing that issue, obviously I'm a bit prejudiced as far as our background and experience are concerned, but I'm going to ask you to consider it in this way: I recognize that in this audience are many Republicans. I know, too, there are many Democrats, many Independents. For the moment that I talk, will you forget what you are, Republican, Democrat, Independent. Think of the country first. I'll tell you why we must do this. The history of this country indicates that the American people, when they elect a President, put the country first, the party second. This is as it should be. It's as it should be because America in these times can afford nothing but the most qualified leadership to deal with this problem of peace with honor and justice and freedom. So, I say, that is the test. That is the test that I want you to apply to me. Apply it sternly. Apply it to my background, to my experience, to what I stand for, and apply it as well to my running mate and to our opponents. Now, first, in judging us, you have to look at our record. We are part of the record of this administration. For 7½ years Cabot Lodge and I have sat in the Cabinet. We have sat in the Security Council. We have participated in the making of the decisions and advising and counseling with the President who has the final responsibility in decision making in this and in other fields. Therefore, as we look at the record of this administration, you must hold us responsible for it. Now, I know that many are critical of that record, and in election campaigns we hear a lot of criticism - some of it perhaps justified; others the result of partisan considerations. But let me say this about the record: No criticism can take away the truth and no criticism can obscure the fact that the American people will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower and his leadership for the fact that he did end one war; he's kept us out of other wars and we do have peace without surrender today. Now, the easy thing to do would be for me to say that's the record. We're going to stand on it. You can look at it but they can't match it. We could say that. That would be easy, but, you know, that isn't enough for America today. It is a great record. We're proud of it. But a record is never something to stand on. It's something to build on. And, looking at that record, when we have in mind the nature of the threat which confronts us - Khrushchev, Mao Tse-tung, the other Communist leaders - we must remember they are not standing still. I know the Communist leaders. I have talked to them. I think I know what their fanatical dedication is to those things that are wrong. I know that with them moving as they are America can't stand still. She must move forward, move forward, militarily, economically, ideologically, so that in this great race for survival we will always be ahead: we will never be second: we will always be first - and, incidentally, we are first today, whatever any of the critics may say. And, so as far as this record is concerned, my colleagues and I do say we are the ones who will move America ahead. We are the ones who can keep her strong. We are the ones who will see that America can progress economically. We are the ones who can give the leadership in the diplomatic area which will deal with Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues in a way that will avoid surrender on the one side or war on the other. Now to prove a point. First, our experience. I can't, of course, appropriately comment on my own, that's for you to judge, but I can sure comment on my colleague's, my running mate's, and I will say this: You folks here in New Hampshire have had a chance to see him on television in the U.N. I don't think any man in the world today, any man from any nation has had more experience or could have done a better job representing the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations, over these last 7 years. Now, why does a Vice President matter? Because under President Eisenhower's leadership the character of the Vice Presidency has changed, and it's going to change even more in the next administration because Cabot; Lodge and I will work together as partners, partners in strengthening the instruments of peace of the United Nations so that it can deal with situations like the Congo even more effectively than it has, and it's done a splendid job there, partners in developing the instruments of peace like the Organization of American States which are dealing with situations like that we have in Cuba, partners in developing new instruments which can keep the peace, but go beyond that - which can extend freedom - because, my friends, it isn't enough for America simply to defend what we have. It isn't enough for us to say we will keep our freedom, but we don't care what happens to the freedom of others. Remember, the world is changing, and the change is inevitable to occur, and if it's going to occur we've got to make sure it changes our way and not the Communist way. We must stand for freedom of others as well as for the freedom of ourselves. Now, all this is pretty fine talk, but how do we do it? What do we have to have? Well, one, looking at the men with whom we are confronted, we recognize, first, that we must have more real power and strength. Why? Because these are men who know power. They respect it. So, that begins with military strength - and certainly talking in the presence of Styles Bridges, one of the greatest experts in this field in the Congress or in the Senate, I think he would certainly agree with me when I say, first, America is stronger than any other nation today - and that is the reason why we have been able to keep the peace, to hold the line as we have - but he would also agree with me when I say that we don't stand still where we are. We constantly examine what they are doing. We constantly examine new breakthroughs, and America must continue to spend whatever is necessary, to ask the people to appropriate whatever is necessary, to keep us first in the world in military strength so that we can keep those who would threaten the peace of the world from using their strength, militarily, diplomatically or otherwise, against the strength of the forces of peace and freedom any place in the world. So, we pledge we will keep this country strong militarily. What else must we do? We must move forward economically, move forward as I noted a moment ago this area has begun to move by your own efforts, move forward throughout the United States, with none being left behind. Why is it so important for the economy of the United States to grow? After all, we're the richest country in the world. Our economy is twice as rich as that of the Soviet Union. Our gross national product is twice as great as theirs. The reason we must not rest on our laurels is that we're in a race. They challenge us. They say they're going to catch us; they say they're going to pass us, as Mr. Khrushchev said to us at the kitchen in Moscow. He said, "You know, Mr. Nixon, I agree you're ahead of us now economically, but," he said, "we're moving faster than you are. We have a better system than you have. We're going to catch you, and, when we catch you; I'm going to wave and I'm going to say, 'Come along, follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall behind hopelessly in this race. And sometimes people ask me "Is he right?" And my answer is, he isn't going to catch us, not in 7 years or 70 years, if we remain true to the principles that have made America the strongest Nation in the world today. Let me tell you what I mean by remaining true to those principles and building on them. We must not make the mistake of assuming that the way to greater progress in the United States is to turn over the functions of individuals and of the States to the Federal Government in Washington, D.C. We must remember the Federal Government has responsibilities, and great ones, responsibilities to lead where the States cannot or will not do the job, responsibilities to do the jobs that are too big for individual enterprise; but we must always remember the great sources of progress in America are what you see around you. What created this city? What Created the tremendous productivity of America. Not the Government, but people - and the policies that we advocate will stimulate the creative activities of 180 million free Americans. That's why we will move forward where our opponents would not, because we have more faith in people than they have, and our platform shows it, our policies, and what we say today shows it, too. Oh, I know that some might say, "Well, now, Mr. Nixon, just a moment. How can you really say that you stand for more progress than your opponents - in health, in education, in welfare, in all of these areas that we Americans want progress in? How can you say it when your opponent comes into this same city and he promises more?" And he does. "He promises that he's going to spend as much as - or at least for programs that would cost as much as - $13 to $18 billion, and you are for programs that would cost far less. How? Why is it that you don't come in and promise as much as he does? Doesn't this show that he's more for us than you are?" And let me ask you a question: Who's going to pay for these promises? Whose money is it? It's not Jack's money. It's your money. That's the thing we have to remember. And that's why I say I'm not going around this country trying to buy the people's votes with their own money. I recognize that it's the responsibility for us to spend every dollar that's necessary in Washington, but, believe me, I know what it means to meet a family budget. I grew up in a little grocery store. I remember in those years in the thirties the families that came in and put things on the books. I remember the housewives, for example, that, instead of buying the chuck roast, would get stew meat; instead of buying the steak would buy hamburger; instead of buying the strawberries out of season, would just get the green beans which happened to be in or something like that, because they had to do it to meet the bills at the end of the month, and I know every time we add a dollar to that Federal budget it makes it harder to balance the family budget. Oh, it would be easy for me to go around the country, promising this, promising that, spend this, spend that; but I say we are going to spend what is necessary, but we are going to leave with the people what we can so that they can balance their own family budgets - and this is what you want. And I add this: Our programs will bring more progress, because sending it down to Washington doesn't produce the progress. It produces stagnation. Why? Because it does not tap the total resources of this country, the individual, the State, and the Federal Government.  Now, one other point: I have mentioned military strength, economic power. I should mention diplomacy. What kind of diplomacy do we need? It must be firm diplomacy. It must be nonbelligerent. We have to take insults without engaging in a war of words, always recognizing, however, that we keep the record straight, that we never allow the United States or her friends to be pushed around in Berlin or anyplace else in the world. We do this, but, on the other hand, while we must be nonbelligerent, in our dealings in order to keep the peace, we must also be firm. We must not be naive, and may I say in that connection that as far as this Government is concerned, we are strong enough that whenever we do anything wrong we can apologize or express regrets for it, but when a President of the United States is doing what is right to defend the security of this country, as President Eisenhower was in ordering the U-2 flights, he must never consider apologizing or expressing regrets for that to anybody. And some might say, "But, Mr. Nixon, maybe by a different attitude you might bring peace." And if it would, that would be another thing. But this shows a naive understanding of the Communists because whenever you make a concession not justified by one they make in return, it doesn't satisfy. It only whets the appetite, and it paves the road to the very consequences that we do not want. And, so, my last point, then, is the most important one. What could be more important than the military and economic strength of America, than her diplomatic firmness? And that is the ideals for which America stands. People sometimes say when I mention this, "Now, Mr. Nixon, if you know the Communists, as you claim you do, why do you put any stress on ideals? These people talk only about power." That is true. They talk only about materialism, economic progress. I'll tell you why I put stress on ideals. Because the tyrants throughout history, my friends, the militarists and the materialists, have always made this mistake of underestimating the power of moral and spiritual strength, and America, above everything else, must have that. America must stand not just for military strength, not just for economic strength. We must stand for the ideals that caught the imagination of the world 185 years ago. What are they? Faith in God; belief in the dignity of every man, woman, and child, regardless of his background; belief in the freedoms and the opportunities that men and women have. They do not come from men. They come from God, and, therefore, they cannot be taken away from men. We believe that these freedoms do not belong to ourselves alone, but they belong to all mankind. These things are what America stands for. These are the reasons that the people throughout the world cheer when an American President or Vice President comes among them. This is the reason Pat and I received an overwhelming reception in Poland, and, to an extent, even in the heart of Siberia because America stands for more than military strength and economic strength. She stands for the strength of ideals which must come from you. Because these things I talk about, a President himself cannot produce them. I can talk about them, but the people of this country, you, through your churches, your schools, your homes, you strengthen the moral and spiritual ideals of America. Let our young people grow up with a real feeling of love of country in their hearts. Let it not be unfashionable to be patriotic. Let it not be certainly the case of our young people not knowing what America stands for. We need this kind of spirit to match the dedication of the enemies of freedom, and if we have this kind of freedom we will win the struggle for peace and freedom because an American President will be backed up by a united, strong country, strong in its ideals, and that's the greatest strength of all. And, so, this is my case. I present it to you. I present it to you on this basis again. Look at our records. Look at our qualifications, but, more, consider what we stand for, and if you in this audience believe that what I stand for and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, stands for, if this is what America needs, if this leadership is what she needs, then I can, in good conscience, ask you today to go out and work for us, to work for the others on our ticket, remembering that you're working for - what? Not just a man; not just a party - remember that you're working for a greater cause than that. You're working for America and for the great ideals that men throughout the world have always wanted and that we stand for. Thank you very much.
On an occasion like this, as you can imagine, a candidate for the Presidency has a real problem to determine just what issues to talk about - a problem because you people have taken so much trouble and time to come here, a problem because we have not too much time to spend in each one of the 50 States, but we've got to make this rather backbreaking schedule that we're making over the next 6 weeks, and in determining before coming to Maine what we should talk about - I, of course, had an opportunity to know something about the background of this State - I consulted with your Senator. I consulted also with the Governor and others. I said: "What are the people of Maine thinking about? What are they most interested in?" You know - an interesting thing - I found the same answer here that I find throughout the country. You would think that Hawaii, which is so far away from Maine, as far away as you can get from Maine and still be in the United States, so different in its background, that Hawaii, the newest of the States, the people there, would be thinking very different things from the people of Maine; but, as a matter of fact, the differences are not nearly as much as the similarities. I find that all over the Nation people are concerned about the things we would expect. As people with families, we want a government under which we can have good jobs and good wages, in which we can plan for our future, in which we can have progress, better schools and housing and health. All of these things we want. We want America to move forward, and we want all of America to move together. We want no section of the country left behind. We want no part of our people left behind. These are things that people want in Maine, in California, in the North, the East, the South, clear out in Hawaii as well. There is something else that they want, something else that unites Americans, all over this great land of ours. They want the kind of government which will insure that whatever progress we have toward better lives, better jobs, better housing and health and schools, whatever we have in these respects, we're around to enjoy the progress we make. In other words, we find that the great issue which overrides all the rest all over the Nation is: Which of the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency, by background, by experience, by program, can best provide the leadership which will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world. Now, it goes without saying, of course, that all the candidates, the four of them, for these offices to which I refer, want peace. We want it without surrender. The question is your choice, your decision, as to which of the candidates is best qualified. Now. obviously I am a bit prejudiced on that point, but I would like to discuss it for just a moment if I might. First, how do you judge us? And I'm going to suggest something in this Republican State of Maine which may surprise you. I'm not going to ask those who are Republicans to vote for me and my colleague because we're Republicans, too. I'm going to suggest that you forget, while I discuss this issue, whether you are Republicans or Democrats and think of the country. Think of America. What leadership does America need? And then we will abide by the decision, because we know that decision will be best for the Nation. Why do I say this? Because whether or not America develops the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender, whether we develop the leadership that will extend freedom, is going to decide not only the future of America, but the future of the world. So, this means that, regardless of party, we have got to leave the best. Regardless of party, you must put me, you must put my opponent and our colleagues to the test, the sternest test you can think of. And, so, I say: Examine our records; examine our backgrounds; examine our programs, and then decide: Is this the leadership America needs? Is this the best we can do in the choice that we have? So, first let's look at the record, the record of which Cabot Lodge, my running mate, and I have been a part. For 7½ years we have sat in the Cabinet, in the National Security Council. For 7½ years we have consulted with and we have helped to advise the President on the great decisions that he has made in the field of foreign policy. So, we are a part of this record. You must hold us accountable for it, and to an extent, of course, you must give us credit for it. What is the record? Well, you get mixed views on it. Obviously, our opponents say it is a bad record. They say there are so many things wrong. The United States has made this mistake, that mistake, and the other. The President has made mistakes, they say. They suggested that at the Paris Conference, for example, some of them thought he hadn't been tough enough with Khrushchev and others thought he should not have been as tough as he was and he should have expressed regrets in order to save the conference. All these criticisms we hear. We hear American prestige has been slipping over the past 7½ years. We hear it is at an all-time low around the world, and, therefore, they say it is time for a change in the field of foreign policy. These things we hear, but now again look at the record. Look at the performance - not all the words, not at the partisan comments, but at the performance - and I say to you it is a good record, and I'll tell you why. Because, in a sentence, it can be summed up in this way: All the criticism in the world can't obscure the truth, the truth that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we ended a war we were in; we've kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. Now, you know, it would be a very easy thing for me just to stop there. You obviously approve of the record. We have a fine record. We stand on it, let the other side say what they want about it. But I don't stop there because that isn't good enough. It isn't good enough for the world. We are faced with a terrible problem in this world today, not of our choosing, not of our creation, but the men in the Kremlin, the men in Peiping - you've been seeing the men in the Kremlin recently - Mr. Khrushchev at his worst, and to an extent at his best, as he sees it, in the United Nations - and, as you see him, you have seen this implacable hatred he has for the ideals for which we stand. You have seen his determination to conquer the world by any means - without war, if possible, if he can accomplish it that way. When you have an opponent of that nature, it means you can't stand still. You're never satisfied with the record. You must move forward, move forward in all areas, move forward so that we can continue to maintain what we want, the kind of a world in which men can be free and nations can be independent and peoples can live together in peace. And, so, going from the record and going to the future, what must you look to? How should you judge the candidates? Well, first, you must look at our backgrounds, personally and otherwise. I, of course, cannot comment on my own - that wouldn't be appropriate - but I can say something about my running mate's, and I do today. You've seen him up here in Maine, in the United Nations, over the last 7½ years on television, and I can say this: I don't think any man in the world has had more experience or could have done a better job than Cabot Lodge in defending the security of the United States. Now, why does that matter? You know, there was a time when Vice Presidents didn't matter too much in the conduct of foreign policy - or any other policy, for that matter - but times have changed as a result of President Eisenhower's leadership. They will continue to change because Cabot Lodge and I will be partners in this enterprise. Because of his vast experience, I intend to give him duties which will enable us to work as partners, first, in strengthening the instruments of peace like the United Nations so that we can deal even more effectively than we have with situations like the Congo; second, strengthening regional organizations like the Organization of American States so that we can again extend the cause of peace and freedom; third, developing such new organizations as we may need which will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom. These things we will do together, and we submit to you his experience, his background and mine together as a team. We believe it's a good team, but again I say: You judge us, and we think your judgment will be best for the Nation. Now, let's go to the third point. The third point I want to make is with regard to the future insofar as program is concerned. What do we stand for? What do we believe is necessary if we are to keep peace, if we are to extend freedom? Well, I indicated a moment ago that we cannot simply rest where we are, no matter how good the record is, and, above everything else, the United States must start with power. Why? Because we are dealing with men who respect power and who have contempt for weakness. This means that the United States must continue to maintain what she has today - an advantage militarily which is so great that no one who threatens the peace of the world dares to start anything anyplace in the world. We must continue to maintain that strength - and, with the kind of leadership, incidentally, which we will get from people like Margaret Smith, who is one of the experts in this field, as you know, America will continue to be, and we will continue to pay whatever price is necessary to be, the strongest nation in the world so that we can be the guardians of peace for you and for people everywhere. Power, militarily - the third ingredient. What else do we need? We need economic strength; economic strength because if we have this military power, which discourages a potential aggressor, it means that the battle will then be launched by him, as it already has been in other areas - and so, in effect, Mr. Khrushchev has declared war on us economically. He has said: "Were going to beat you." He said, "We don't have to beat you by war, through the traditional devices of aggression. We are going to beat you economically, because we're going to outproduce you." And over and over again he repeated that to me when I was in Moscow. The question is: Can he win? Can he beat us? Can he catch us, as he has indicated, in 7 years? The answer is: He isn't going to catch us in 7 or 70 years if we stay true to the principles that have made America the most productive nation in the world today. Let me tell you what has happened in the Soviet Union in its economy. Decentralization of the control of the economy. Why? Because they found, as they had everything centered in Moscow, it lead to inefficiency and they had to decentralize. You know what else is happening? Reward of incentives. In this country which you are supposed to have under the Marxist ideology of everybody receiving according to his needs and producing according to his ability, what do you find? The greatest reward for incentives of any nation in the world, paying more to those who produce more, paying more to those who are more creative. In other words, what are we finding in the Soviet Union? They, in order to compete with us, have had to depart from their traditional theories and turn our way, and I say to you, the way to stay ahead of them is not to make the mistake of turning their way. We have got to continue in the American way of strengthening the creative abilities and enterprise of 180 million free Americans. This is the way to progress. Why do I emphasize that? I emphasize that because there is too great a tendency at the present time to think in the United States that, because we are in an economic race, what we have to do is turn over our problems to Washington; what we have to do is to have a massive increase of expenditures in Washington, and what we have to do is to have Washington have more and more control over the business enterprises and more interference in the activities in this time.  This is a well held belief. The people who hold it are well intentioned, but I believe they're wrong, because that kind of thinking will not bring the great progress America needs.  What is our philosophy on the other side? We say that Washington has responsibilities. We have a program for schools, for housing, in health, in all of these areas that will produce progress, not just promise it, but produce it, as Margaret Smith emphasized in her speech last night.  But our program is one that produces progress not by taking responsibility from people, from the States, but by strengthening individual enterprise, by strengthening the States. Ours is a program which does not turn over all the problems to Washington, but says Washington shall do those things that the individuals and the States cannot do.  Now, why does this make sense? Because you get more out of your country that way. You tap all the energies of the people. You have individuals doing everything they can. You have the States making every contribution they can. You have the Federal Government doing what it can.  That's why our program will work and why theirs, on the other hand, will not.  Of course, I realize that there are those who might say, "Well, now, just a minute Mr. Nixon. We see what your opponents say. They've come into this State and they say, 'We're really for schools and for progress and for housing, for all these other projects that we're interested in, but we will spend more for these.'  They say, for example, they have programs in all these areas which would cost a great deal more than our programs, and I want to say right here and now, they're right. Their programs would cost billions more than ours, but who's going to pay for these programs? Putting it in a nutshell, not Jack, but you. You're going to pay for these programs.  Now, I return to Margaret Smith. I return to Cliff McIntire. Both of them have records for economy. Margaret, I understand, has the best one in the United States or one of the best of all the Senators. Now, you would think: Now, she's voting for economy. Is she voting against the interests of people when she votes against the spending of your money in Washington or votes to spend it more usefully or constructively? Is that against your interests? Of course not. I say: When you have a choice of one program that will do a job that costs less and another program that's designed to do the same job and won't do it as well and will cost more, we'll take the one that costs less and will do the best. So, whether it's military strength, economic power, we believe ours is the way to progress, ours is the way to strength. What else do we need We need diplomacy that is firm, without being belligerent, diplomacy that will always go the extra mile, as President Eisenhower has so eloquently indicated, in negotiating to reduce tensions, but diplomacy that will never be taken in, never be gullible, that will never presume - and this is the key point - that the Communists will react like other world leaders. When you get into trouble, you see, when dealing with the Communists, is when you assume that apologizing or expressing regrets for something that is right is going to have some effect on them. It doesn't. Whenever you make a concession to a Communist that isn't matched by a concession on his part in return, it simply whets his appetite for more. This is true of any dictator. It's especially true of Mr. Khrushchev. And that's why in the case of Cabot Lodge and myself, knowing this man as we do, knowing his colleagues as we do, we say to you: We will go an extra mile. We will always work for peace. We will take the initiative on disarmament and every other field, but we will never make a concession. We will never reduce America's strength without getting a reduction in strength on his part, as well. One other point: Military strength, economic power, a firm diplomacy, strengthening the instruments of peace - all these things are important, but the most decisive power in using that term in its highest sense is neither military or economic. That power comes not from a President. He can talk about it, but it comes from you. And I speak of the power of America's ideals. What are they? What do they mean? Why will they be decisive? I've often recalled our trip to Poland, a trip in which there were not notices in the papers as to when we were going to come and arrive or where we were going to go, and yet a quarter of a million people were on the streets, on a Sunday afternoon, cheering and shouting, throwing flowers by hundreds of bouquets into our cars, and hundreds and hundreds of them crying, with tears running down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily and economically. They knew that. And not because we were famous, because we weren't to them, as President Eisenhower would have been, but because they respected America behind the Iron Curtain in a Communist country, as America has been respected since the time of her foundation, because she has stood for more than might makes right. She has stood for more than atheistic materialism. America has stood for the right of all men to be free. We stand for faith in God, for recognition that the rights of man, rights that belong to all our people, regardless of their race or their origin or their creed, cannot be taken away by any man and must be guaranteed because they come from God. These things America stands for. This is what we must emphasize to the world, and this is what you can do, students here, others in this audience: Strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of this country. Go back and see to it that our young people learn about this country's ideas, that they respect them. Let's make patriotism a fashionable word. Let's be proud of our country. Let's see to it that America, as far as her President is concerned, is backed by a united country, confident of its ideals, mature in its reactions to the great crisis with which we will be confronted. If you will do that, we can lead and we will lead the world, as we should, to peace without surrender, and we shall lead also to the extension of freedom throughout the world. And now this brings me back to why I came here. We are here for your support, but again I say: Test us. Test us not only on the basis of labels we wear, partisan or otherwise. Test us not on the basis of even what I say, but test us on the basis of our experience, our background, our program. If you think that Cabot Lodge and I are the ones who can lead America, if you think that our other colleagues on this platform are the ones who can provide the leadership that this State needs, if you believe, for example, in the State of Maine that John Reed is the type of dynamic leader that this State needs in the State house - and I submit to you that I believe all these things - if you believe it, then I can ask you in good conscience: Go out and work in this State, and let's carry it for our Republican ticket from top to bottom. You can do it. Thank you.
Here I believe you should consider and examine our record. Now, when I speak of our record, I have got to point out and I am proud to point out that Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice Presi-dent, and I have been part of this administration for 7½ years. We have sat in the meetings of the National Security Council with the President. We have sat in the meetings of the Cabinet. We have participated in the great discussions on Lebanon, Quemoy, Matsu, and others, which involve this delicate problem of avoiding war on the one side and surrender on the other. We're proud, I say, of this record. There are others, I know, who don't think that record is good, and I'll have more to say about that in a minute, but to those who say there are things wrong with what we have been doing my answer is that we live in a difficult world. My answer is that certainly we can find those things to criticize; but, my friends, when you look at the whole record, 7½ years, none of the criticism can take away the truth, and the truth is that the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for getting this Nation out of one war, for keeping us out of others, and for giving us peace without surrender today for America and the world. Now, that's my side of the case on the record. There is another side. You had a chance to hear it in New York State here yesterday when my opponent was in this State talking about this same record, and if you read what he said - and I advise you to read what he said - I advise you to hear what he says, because you must hear both sides - but if you read what he says, it will sound like an altogether different record. You'll read about an America that is losing its strength. You will read about an America that is losing its prestige around the world. You will read about an America that has lost the initiative every place in the world. The Communists are doing this; they're doing that; they're doing everything else, and we're doing nothing. In fact, one statement which I think summarizes the whole speech was this, and I repeat it as I recall it. What he said in New York State yesterday was that he, the candidate for the Presidency on the other ticket, was tired of reading in the paper about what Mr. Khrushchev did, about what Mr. Castro did; he wanted to be able to read in the paper what Mr. Eisenhower was doing. Well, let me say this: If he would quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower was doing for America. I suppose he was referring to the fact as to what Mr. Khrushchev did, that he made somewhat of a fool of himself in the United Nations. Well, we know what President Eisenhower did. We're proud that President Eisenhower spoke for the whole free world so eloquently in the United Nations - and he could have referred to that, I think. Maybe he was referring to the fact that Mr. Khrushchev spoke for 4½ hours in the United Nations, and again - I mean Mr. Castro, and he spoke for 4½ hours - Mr. Khrushchev could have spoken even longer, I know from experience; but, be that as it may, whatever it is, Khrushchev speaks in the U.N., Castro speaks in the U.N. They say everything that is wrong about us, and everything is right about them; but, my friends, they can't take away the fact that when President Eisenhower spoke the whole free world spoke with him, that when President Eisenhower spoke, he was not just talking - he was acting for the cause of peace, acting for the cause of freedom, standing for true disarmament, honest disarmament; and, as the President has said to me many times, and this I pledge to you in the future, we will always go an extra mile to negotiate. We will always be willing to disarm, but only if we are sure that the Communists are doing the same thing. We're never going to make America weak while they remain strong. This is the kind of leadership that we need. And if you read what President Eisenhower said - he advanced proposals in the field of food for peace for the whole world, new proposals in this area and in others. What I am trying to say to this great audience is this: I am proud of the leadership of our President, as I think the American people are proud of it. I believe that that leadership has gained for us the initiative in the world, and I believe, further, that in the United Nations, itself, we can see what their verdict is.
Several days ago at Charleston, W. Va., I said Senator Kennedy should correct his false statement to the effect that 17 million people go to bed hungry every night in the United States. I said he should do this while Mr. Khrushchev and his Communist Colleagues are still in the United States because his statement - an obvious distortion - is being used by the Communists in their propaganda against the United States. The press reports that the Senator in Buffalo revised his earlier statement somewhat, and in effect, thus admitted his abuse of fact in this instance. He is to be commended for his action. Unfortunately, however, his use of distortion as the basis of campaign argument has continued unabated, and we can expect our opponents abroad to continue to pick up his inaccurate statements as grist for their propaganda mill. For example, during the debate Monday night he said that: "The Soviet Union by 1975 will be producing more power than we are." This is a gross distortion of the truth. The facts are that if America stood absolutely still, if we built not one additional hydroelectric project between now and then, the Soviets would be faced with the monumental task of building eight Grand Coulee dams a year from now until 1977 just to catch up to where America is today in hydroelectric power. But, of course, we are not standing still. During the Eisenhower administration, 53 new hydroelectric projects or new units of existing projects have been authorized, well over half the total completed in the preceding half century. This is not even to point out that at our present rate of progress America will be producing, in addition to hydroelectric power, large quantities of power from atomic energy by 1975 and that our power production from coal and gas will also far exceed that of the Soviet. Senator Kennedy has a right and responsibility to point out how he believes we should strengthen America. But he owes a responsibility to the Nation, as well as to his party, not to distort the image of America. Constructive criticism of our faults is one source of great strength in a free country. But downgrading what America has done and is doing in comparing our achievements with those of the Soviet Union does not help us at home and results in our being slandered abroad. It is not necessary to tear America down in order to build her up. Senator Kennedy should immediately correct these factual distortions of the strength of the American system. He should also stop making them, even for the purposes of the campaign. The American people have the intelligence to separate fact from fiction in a political campaign but the Communists will not concede them that in their propaganda. It is not enough that the Senator say, as he did yesterday, that "We are the strongest nation on earth today." The Communists will overlook this truth and circulate only the falsehood. If the Senator will stick to the facts, the American people will weigh his arguments carefully enough. He will lose no real opportunities to advance his candidacy at home and America will lose nothing abroad.
 Vice President NIXON. Congressman Taylor, Mrs. Taylor, I am breaking a protocol because they are the guests of honor tonight; Senator Keating, Lieutenant Governor Wilson, Mr. Mayor and all friends of Dean Taylor. [Applause.] As you know, it's the responsibility of the candidate for the Presidency to make lots of speeches. He makes them at unusual hours and on occasions many times unexpected. As a matter of fact, we had three or four on the way in from the airport today. I didn't dream that people would come out in the rain and stand there completely soaked. I know they got soaked because I did, too (I mean the rain, incidentally). [Applause and laughter.] That reminds me that when I went to Caracas, somebody said, "The Vice President got stoned when he was in Caracas." [Laughter.] Well, at any event, we had several unexpected meetings and always, no matter how long the day is, no matter how unusual the situation is, some way the words come, maybe they aren't the best words, but always the candidate is trying to do his best to bring to the audience concerned the message that will be of interest to them and one that comes from his heart. Tonight I find that task easier than usual - not the task of finding words - but from the standpoint of expressing, at least, my affection for and respect for Dean Taylor, for his wife, and all that he stands for. I say that because he completes 18 years of service in the Congress, and what I say about him now is directed to him not as Mr. Republican of this area and not as a Republican Congressman, but what I say is said about Congressmen and Senators generally, and about the State legislators generally, about all people who run for elective office, Democrat and Republican, and who serve a number of years in a distinguished way. You know, I don't suppose anybody takes a worse beating from the cartoonists, from the columnists, from the editorial writers, than people who are in the House of Representatives or the Senate or the State legislature. I don't suppose that more caricatures that are inaccurate are painted of people than of them: they're fair game. Oh, you see always the pictures in the papers, particularly the cartoonists have fun with them, showing them either to he senile or stupid, or both; showing them to be usually not responsible, always concerned only with politics, never concerned about the people. You know what is the amazing thing? That this country has been run so well by people through the years! That's all that I can say. It's so easy to be a columnist or a commentator and I don't want to get into any fights with them. I need all the friends I can get. [Laughter.] But it's so easy to sit on the sidelines and say: Why didn't this Congressman do this or that Senator do that? Why does he make all these mistakes? Put yourself for the moment in a position of a man like Dean Taylor. Eighteen years in Washington! And his wife - 18 years in Washington. You think, well, it's pretty nice, going down there, running up and down the Potomac in a yacht and having the chance to hear the President make state-of-the-Union messages and the like, making great speeches on the floor of the House of Representatives with the galleries hushed and all the members applauding (I don't know that I've ever seen one of those) - but be that as it may - it's supposed to be that way. And yet, when you look at the work of a Congressman or a Senator, believe me, it's a lot different. So much of that work is really doing things for people. I don't mean things that oughtn't to be done, but doing things that ought to be done. You know, the word "Congressman" is not correct; it's "Representative." And Dean Taylor has been a representative of his people. It doesn't make any difference who has written to him over these 18 years, Republican or Democrat, whoever it is, if somebody writes and says, "My boy is in the service and he isn't getting the kind of a deal he should," his office goes to work, and sometimes he personally goes to work to see that that situation is rectified. And I could perhaps multiply that by literally tens of thousands of letters and personal calls that he over 18 years has handled for which he has received very little credit from people at large, but for whom individuals in this district will be eternally grateful to him for. And so to all the men who have served this country and the Congress and the House of Representatives and the Senate, to all of those who serve in positions of trust like this and who serve honorably as Dean Taylor has, who work in the interests of their constituents as he has, who puts the Nation first (even when it may cost him politically) as he has, to all of them I say the Nation is grateful tonight. And I as a candidate for the Presidency, who happens to have been once a Congressman and also a Senator, and who knows something of the sacrifices many of them make to serve there, who knows something of the hard work, hours and hours of work that they put in in their offices, who knows also what their wives do, how they entertain the constituents when they come down, even when they're bone tired and they have probably been in that House restaurant so many times and still wonder how they can go again and give the proper courtesies and the like, yet they always do it. So, believe me, this is a moment I've been looking forward to - to pay my respects to Dean as an individual, as one who has been a close personal friend of mine from the time I came to the House 14 years ago; one who I always considered to be a "dean" to a certain extent, he always seemed older to me some way, but as I get older he seems younger. [Laughter and applause.] And now, as I see him retiring, it makes me wonder - 14 years? I don't know. But I'm not thinking of retiring right now! [Applause.] I'm not going to use this occasion to talk on the issues of the campaign. This room is crowded, you've been a long time, you're tired, I will only say this has been an exciting campaign. I often thought when I ran for Congress that nothing could be harder, until I ran for the Senate and then that was harder; then we ran for Vice President and that was harder. But, believe me, when you wrap it all up in a presidential campaign, you really have something. I say "harder." I'm speaking now in terms of the number of people you see, the number of speeches you make, the number of miles you travel, the amount of brain power and energy you have to put into it - but not harder from the standpoint of inspiration you get from it. Because all of the work we've put in is made worthwhile by a day like this. To close with an evening like this of a man's friends, a Congressman, being saluted as he should - not only by his Republican friends but by his Democratic friends as well, by the friends of his community - to have gone through the day with the rain pouring down torrents and people by the thousands on the streets, this makes you feel very humble; it makes one realize what a tremendous responsibility it is to run for the highest office of this land and how very important it is to do as effective a job as you can as a candidate, and also that you should succeed - never to let down the people that have spent those hours, and have done so much to inspire you along the way. And so for your inspiration that you have given to Pat and me in this district and in the surrounding districts, we will be forever grateful. We will he grateful to you for reminding all of America today that Congressmen are good people, that Congressmen are worthwhile, that all the Congressmen aren't the caricatures they're painted in the cartoons and the like, but they are the fine people that have given America the best government that the world has ever seen. You know, we talk about the genius of America. Do you know what it is? Some say that the genius of America is in its productivity economically and, of course, that's one of the wonders of the world. And others will point to other things which point up the greatness of America: our great natural resources, for example. But the genius of America is primarily political. For 180 years, 170 years actually since the Constitution, going back to 180 years to the time of the Declaration of Independence, we Americans have learned to change governments without riots and revolutions, to abide by the decisions, we've learned to govern ourselves, to effect these changes of government and still maintain stability. And it's a tribute to men like Dean Taylor, thousands of them through the years, who have given America the government it wants. Now one last point - we shouldn't end on such a serious note. I've mentioned Dean's wife. I mentioned outside the importance I attach to wives in campaigns. I called attention to the fact that my law school professor in contracts the first day of law school said: "Young men, the best advice I can give you is to marry for money and practice law for love." Well, I did that. [Laughter.] In any event, I want to say that the wives are tremendously loyal in these campaigns (they have to be). They have to sit there and hear you make that same speech and look as if it's for the first time they ever heard it each time. [Laughter.] Also, the wives are loyal in the way they give up so much of their homelife in order to be with their husbands on the campaign trail. And believe me, too, they can help you. Let me give you a couple of examples. I recall out in Nebraska, 2 or 3 months ago, we were standing in a receiving line and a great long line it was, and finally an old farmer came through the line, he was chewing a toothpick and he said: "You know, young fellow, I came here from 200 miles away." He shook hands with me, shook hands with Pat, came back to me and he said: "My wife's going to vote for you, but I'm going to vote for Pat." [Laughter and applause.] So lots of people here have voted for Dean's wife, I'm sure. Another point that I should make. When we were invited to this, I understood it was going to be a small reception of Dean's friends. Then they couldn't get Dean's friends even into this room, and now I understand the fire chief out there is saying we're breaking all the ordinances by having as many of you in here as there is. But we thought the party would be small enough that Pat and I could greet each and every one of you individually. That apparently is not possible, there are too many here, because we have to leave early in the morning for a day of campaigning in Ohio and that will bring us back to Washington at 1 o'clock in the morning Sunday. So, since we can't shake hands, I must share with you one of my favorite recollections of a long handshaking session in Florida. This one occurred earlier this year and, believe me, incidentally, we're on the march down there; that's one State we're going to carry. [Applause.] We shook hands with over 3,500 people in 3 hours, and that's moving. But they came through the line and came through the line. Finally one lady came through the line at the last and she looked so tired, because the people had been crowded and jammed in (but we just invited anybody to come, as you've been invited tonight), and this lady came through the line and she got up here and said: "You know, Mr. Nixon, I'm so glad to get here. I didn't think I was going to get here in time to vote for you." [Laughter and applause.] Well, an occasion like this in which everything goes, of course, can't finish without a Texas story. So I'll tell you my favorite Texas story (also about campaigning and also involving a receiving line). This occurred in Dallas, Tex., about 2 years ago. I was standing in line alone on this occasion because Pat had not been able to come. I had attended a big VFW convention and they said they were going to have a little reception afterwards for the local Republicans - about 2,000 came out - and we shook hands, on and on and on, and I apparently looked a bit tired at the end. A couple of ladies came through, one a little older, one a little younger. The older one looked at me, obviously a very considerate, compassionate type, and she said: "Mr. Nixon, you look so tired, I feel so sorry for you." The younger one took my hand, she said: "Well, I don't feel sorry for you. I've been standing here just as long as you have and I have high heels on!" [Applause.] So, you see, that puts it all in perspective. We think we get tired, but the ladies are wearing high heels, so let's do what Pat does - take 'em off sometimes. And so with that, may I again thank you for coming to honor Dean Taylor and to let us be here to honor him with you. You honor the institution which he represents and of which he's been a member, and this little interlude in the campaign is one that we will always remember, and we will remember your friendship, we will remember your patriotism, we will remember your honor for the office of Congressman, of Representative of the United States. And remember there's no more honorable office in the world than that. Thank you. [Applause.]
Now, if I may, I would like to tell you a little about the day we had yesterday and the day before. In Boston, the day before, and in upper New York State yesterday it was raining. The weather was not like it is here in Ohio, when certainly it couldn't be better, good sharp football weather, and not only was it raining but yesterday in New York it was raining cats and dogs and a few pitchforks as well, but the interesting thing is that I have never seen larger crowds - a quarter of a million people on the streets of Boston, as we came in - a quarter of a million - and in Troy, Schenectady, Albany, and that area, again literally thousands of people on the streets, after dark, at night, standing in the rain cheering, shouting, as you are, waving and indicating their interest in the campaign. What does this mean? It would be rather easy for me to say this means solely a personal tribute to the Vice President and his wife. It means that to an extent because obviously a lot of people were out, but it also means something else, and this is something that involves the Nation itself, the very heart of our problems in this country. It means that people this year are concerned about our Government. They know that the decision they are going to make on November 8 is one of the most important decisions they will make in their lifetime because it is one that affects not only their future, but their children's future. It's one that affects not only their future and their children's future, but the future of the whole world, because in this period of the sixties great decisions will be made by the President of the United States, decisions that will affect the course of history for perhaps centuries to come because we are joining battle - not in the sense of the traditional battle where guns are fired and bombs are dropped, but battle of a much more difficult kind - battle of the nonmilitary character, in which the forces of communism on the one side are arrayed and the forces of freedom on the other side. You've had a chance to see that battle. You can see it today. Look at the television of the U.N. proceedings. Look at Mr. Khrushchev acting as he does there. Look at Prime Minister Macmillan and President Eisenhower - such a wonderful contrast, incidentally, to Mr. Khrushchev. This is an indication of what has been going on and what will continue to go on in this period of the sixties. It will go on not because we want it to, because the United States, Great Britain, all of our friends in the world, India - none of us wants anything from anybody else. All that we want is independence for ourselves, freedom for ourselves. We don't want to impose our form of government on anybody else; but Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues do not look at the world that way. Here are men who are ruthless, fanatical, dedicated, determined to conquer the world, conquer it by any means, if necessary, without war, if possible. So, this is the problem. You see it. This is the reason people are stirred up. This is the reason the crowds are big. This is the reason they come out in the rain as well as on a delightful, beautiful Ohio day. So, I say to you today the issue I want to discuss today - and this is the issue to which I want to relate the other problems in which you are interested - is the greatest one confronting the American people this November, and I can put it in a question. The decision you must make on November 8 is: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great issue. Now, how should you make the decision on that issue? And again I'm going to say something that particularly the students here will probably be surprised at, and perhaps some of the voters as well of the older people. I do not suggest here that you should make this decision if you are Republicans by saying, "Well, Nixon's a Republican, I'm a Republican. I'm going to vote Republican." That would be easy to do. The decision you make this November is too important to simply do it on the basis of the label a man wears. The decision you make this year should be on the basis of what's behind the label; what does he stand for; what is his record; what are his qualifications. America must have the best leadership, Democrat or Republican., that it can provide - and it's that way that I present the case today. I say to you: Consider my qualifications; consider my program; consider my colleague's qualifications, and his program; consider our opponents', and then decide which of the two teams will be best for America, and this is the way I present the case. Now, obviously, I begin by being a bit prejudiced as far as I'm concerned, and on considering the case you must take that into account. But I begin first by suggesting that as you analyze this issue you must first look at our record. Now, as far as this record is concerned, it is one that Cabot Lodge and I have been a part of for 7½ years. Both of us have sat in the meetings of the National Security Council and meetings of the Cabinet. Both of us have counseled and advised with the President of the United States and the great decisions with regard to Lebanon, Quemoy and Matsu, and all the others. Some have been criticized, all of those decisions some have vigorously criticized. We have participated in the making of those decisions in the sense that we have been counseling the President when he has asked for that advice, as he pointed out the other day in his speech from Chicago. And, so, here is that record. You must judge by that record, and we ask you to judge us. And I will agree that some don't like it, and our opponents have a responsibility to criticize it where they think it is wrong, but I have also the right to defend it when I think it is right, and it is right in this respect: All the criticism in the world can't take away the truth that under President Eisenhower's leadership we got this country out of one war, we've kept it out of others, and we do have peace without surrender today. But then, being fair, we've got to say the opponents say, "But, now, look here, Mr. Nixon, look at what's happened in the last 7½ years. America has been standing still and the Communist world has been moving. America has been making mistakes and the Communist world has been gaining. We look around the world today and we find trouble, we find that our President, for example, isn't able to go to Japan because of riots that Communists inspired. Our Vice President gets stoned in Caracas, Venezuela, because of riots the Communists inspired, and soon down the line." Now, I do not claim this administration's record is perfect, but I do say this with regard to the Japan and Toledo incident, and with regard to the incident in Caracas: It's time that the American people, critics and proponents alike, should quit blaming ourselves for what the Communists do abroad and what our friends may be opposed to. You remember all the talk after the President did not go to Japan. Everything was wrong about our policy with Japan. We were responsible for this. We had been making mistakes in our policy toward Japan and, therefore, that's why the President wasn't able to go. What's happened since? The President maintained his dignity. We didn't change our policy. We didn't blame the Japanese people or the Japanese Government for what the Communists had inspired. We continued to be friends of Japan. We continued to trade with them. We continued to help them. What has happened? Our relations with Japan today are better than they have ever been. The Communists were defeated in the elections when they were held there recently and in the local elections, and now the Crown Prince of Japan is here in the United States. I say we're going to have troubles in the world. We've got to expect that, but every time we have trouble, it isn't because we're at fault. The question is not whether we have troubles, but how we handle them, and I say President Eisenhower handled the Japanese trouble well. Now, of course, I noted that Senator Kennedy in a speech in New York the other day, on Thursday, had some criticisms to make. He referred to this, and among other items, and he also referred to the current proceedings at the U.N., and in his discussion during the course of the speech he made this remark. He said: "I'm tired of reading in the paper of what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper of what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to read in the paper what President Eisenhower is doing." Well, all I can say: If the Senator would quit talking so much and start reading, he would see what President Eisenhower was doing. Now, let's get one thing very straight. He isn't doing the things Mr. Khrushchev or Mr. Castro are doing, but I say thank God for that. We don't want that. Mr. Khrushchev gets before the United Nations and he tries to gain the initiative by coming out for another phony disarmament plan. Do we want that from our President? No. Our President goes before the United Nations. He comes out with an honest program of disarmament. Not one which is naive, because, as the President says, America must never disarm unless we have guarantees that the Khrushchevs and the others will also reduce their armaments at the same time. And the President, in addition to that, comes out with a great food-for-peace plan, operating through the United Nations, one of the most generous offers ever made by a nation in the history of the world. What does Mr. Khrushchev do? He tries to use his economic powers and his economic aid not for the purpose of helping newly independent nations to keep their independence and freedom, but for the purpose of subjecting them, for the purpose of dominating them, for the purpose of making them satellites. I say the way we act 15 certainly much to be preferred to the way he acts. Oh, it's difficult. It's difficult. We could act a lot differently toward Cuba, for example, than we have; and this is a very difficult problem for us. We could do, for example, what Mr. Khrushchev did in Hungary - slaughter hundreds of thousands of innocent people in the streets of Hungary as he did - but what have we done with regard to the Cuban problem? We have done, it seems to me, the responsible thing. We haven't named the innocent people of Cuba for being misled by a demagogue, Mr. Castro. We have been trying to work through the Organization of American States, our friends in the American States, trying to bring it about so that the people of Cuba, themselves, can get what they deserve, and that is the realization of the Cuban revolution's true objectives - freedom, progress, economic progress; but realization of those objectives without dictatorship. This is responsible. It's difficult. But may I say that here again we can be proud that the United States is not acting, using its muscle, using its power, as we could use it, against a very small country. Look at the Congo. We say, "Well, Mr. Khrushchev's acting there and we're not acting." Yes; but look at what he's doing. he is muscling in, trying to move unilaterally, not through the United Nations, trying to move in for what purpose? Trying to take over this poor, newly independent country, poor not in terms of resources, but poor in terms of its ability to keep its independence because of lack of trained people. What do we do? We could move in unilaterally, too, but no. The United States moves through the United Nations, patiently. We attempt to go in to save the independence of the Congo, to help these people who have gotten this independence, to help them to keep it. This, I say, is not as spectacular; no, but it's the right thing to do, and that's what America has been doing and will continue to do. Oh, I know others will say, "Oh, but Mr. Nixon, look at how the U.S. prestige has been going down." Mr. Stevenson said the same thing in 1956. He was wrong then, and Mr. Kennedy is doubly wrong today, as far as American prestige is concerned. If you want a test, you know the best test I can think of is what has occurred in the United Nations on the situation in the Congo. You remember they had a vote a few days ago? The United States was on one side, the Russians were on another. You know what the score was? 70 to 0. We got 70; they got nothing. That would be a pretty good score in football; it's a tremendous score in international relations, and it certainly is the answer to those who say the U.S. prestige is down. No when you look at the situation in the world today, you will find that when President Eisenhower spoke to the U.N. he spoke not only of the wishes and the aspirations and the ideals of America; he spoke for the whole world. And it's time for all Americans, without regard to party, to realize the President represents America at its best in speaking as he did. We back him, and I'm sure most of the American people do back our President in this period as he speaks in this way for the cause of peace and freedom. Now, so much for the record. We should turn, of course, to the future. What kind of leadership will we give in this area? Well, again, you must look at our backgrounds. I can't speak appropriately of my own experience, but I can of my running mate's, and I'll only say this: Anybody who has watched what he has done at the United Nations over 7½ years would find it hard to disagree with the statement I am about to make: That no man in the world has had more experience and no man could have done a better job of speaking for the cause of peace and freedom as Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. Why do I mention the vice presidential candidate? Of course, some of you who are students of political science, will think back to the days of Throttlebottom. They've gone, those days. The next Vice President, as in the case of this administration, due to President Eisenhower's leadership, will be one who will work with the President in carrying out assignments, particularly in the field of foreign policy. We will work together, for example, in strengthening the instruments of peace, rather than weakening them, strengthening the Organization of American States, strengthening the United Nations, developing new organizations. Why? Because through such organizations we develop world opinion on the side of what we want - peace, freedom, independence for all. And, so, these are our credentials. No, what will we do? What's our program? Well, again, you must look at our background and experience. We are people who know the Communist leaders, and consequently you've got to expect that our program will be designed to meet the kind of men that they are. However, Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues do not react like leaders of the free world. They don't react like Mr. Macmillan and President de Gaulle and Prime Minister Nehru, but they are ruthless men, determined to conquer the world. And, consequently, knowing what kind of men they are, knowing their background, we believe these things must be done by America if we're to keep the peace and extend freedom. First, we must be the most powerful nation in the world. We are today. We must continue to be, and we must be prepared to pay whatever price is necessary to pay, and the American people, I am sure, will be willing to. We're the most powerful nation in the world, militarily. Why? Not because we ever want to use this power against anybody else to acquire anything in the world, but because we are the guardians of peace. And so long as we are the strongest nation in the world, this is the greatest deterrent to anybody that would threaten the peace. And, so, we pledge this, and I can assure you we will carry out this pledge, because we know the kind of men we are dealing with. We must never have an American President go to the conference table in a position where the man on the other side of the table, Mr. Khrushchev, or whoever is his successor, can say, "I'm looking down your throat. I'm stronger than you are." This will never happen. We'll see to that. Point 2: In addition to military power, the United States must move forward economically. I've spoken of our record. I think it's a good one, but a record is never something to stand on. It's something to build on, and in the world in which we live, with the threat with which we are confronted, America can't be satisfied with her military strength. We can never stand pat on our economic policies and our economic strength. We must move forward to develop the full potential of this American nation of ours.  Now, here I am sure that all of the American people will have difficulty in choosing between the two programs of the candidates. I will tell you today the things that I believe are necessary, the program that I stand for. I will tell you, for example, that I think we need economic policies that will stimulate the creative energies of a hundred and eighty million people, that will increase employment, that we need Government policies, for example, which will provide better guarantees and better protection against unemployment than we presently have. I will tell you today, for example, that I think those policies will produce more economic programs and progress than will the policies of our opponents. I will tell you, too, if we're going to have economic progress, all America must move forward together, and none must be left behind. That means no section of the country - and that's why we've got to have a bill on depressed areas - which will deal effectively with it, not in the way that our opponents tried to deal with it with the bill which they introduced in the last session of the Congress and which was a fraud on the whole situation, but deal effectively with it on a rifle approach rather than a shotgun approach. I will tell you again that as far as these policies are concerned if America is to move forward economically we've got to develop our educational resources. We cannot waste the talent of your young men and our young women. Let me tell you about the most exciting day of my life, other than the day that Pat said, "Yes." I was going to say it wasn't the day I was nominated for President of the United States, but it was the day in 1934 that I got a letter from Duke University Law School indicating that I was going to get a scholarship to study law. If I hadn't gotten that scholarship, I could never have studied law. I was talking to Father Hesburgh, of Notre Dame, when I was there in February of this year about the scholarships to Notre Dame. He told me that over a hundred valedictorians applied for admission to Notre Dame last year who couldn't get in and who couldn't afford to get in because there weren't enough to go around. Now, speaking here at a great university, speaking not only of the problem of scholarships, but expenditures generally for the students, let me say this: Those in this university are the most fortunate in the world, but you are a very small percentage of all the young people who could go to college and you're not a very substantial percentage of those who are qualified to go. America can't waste its resources here. That's why I have advocated an educational program which will deal with this problem, deal with it by aid to higher education, deal with it also through scholarship programs and loan programs and through a program which will allow tax deductions and tax credits to parents who do incur expenditures for their sons and daughters to go to college. Why do we do this? Why do we do this? Because America can't afford not to discover and develop one of the great scientists of our time. He may be the one who didn't get the scholarship. We can't afford not to do that. The same is true of our minority groups. All Americans must move together. None must be left behind. We cannot, for example, waste the talents of 14 million of our Negro citizens. We can't do it for a number of reasons. (1) Because it hurts the moral fiber of America not to deal justly with all of our people. (2) Because economically we need the talents of these people, and we must see that they have equality of opportunity, too. I could go on. The point that I'm making here is this: How do you know which to believe? My opponent says the same things. He's for education and developments in science and economic progress, and I am, and my answer is: I think we can produce where he can't. I think that his programs are not new programs. They are retreads, and you in Akron know what a retread is. They can be pretty good today. They can be pretty good today, but going back a few years they weren't too good. You had quite a few blowouts. And his is a retread that will have a blowout because of the very weaknesses in it. They're retreads of policies that were tried and found wanting and that we left in 1953, and ours are policies that will succeed. Why? Succeed, because we don't say the Federal Government is going to do all these things, turn it over to Washington. We say the Federal Government has a responsibility to lead. The Federal Government has the responsibility to supplement what individuals will not do, but the primary responsibility for growth, the way to get the most out of this American economy of ours is for government at all levels to stimulate creative activities of a hundred and eighty million free individuals. This is the way to progress. My last point: We need military strength. We need America to move ahead economically; but, above everything else we need to be sure that the moral and spiritual fiber of this country is strong. Why? Why is this important when you're dealing with men that respect only power? You know, for centuries the militarists and the materialists have underestimated the power of moral and spiritual strength. But when Pat and I were in Poland we saw it. We received a welcome such as we didn't even receive yesterday or today or the day before. A quarter of a million Poles on the streets behind the Iron Curtain on a Sunday afternoon, shouting and cheering, "Niech Zyje America," long live America, and when the car stopped in the middle of the city, I noticed that many of them, grownups, grown men and women, crying with tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Not because we were militarily strong, and not because America was economically rich, but because they knew we stood for values and ideals greater than military strength and economic strength. They knew that we stood for faith in God, for belief in the dignity of men, for recognition for the rights of man, the right to be free, the right of nations to be independent; that these rights belong to all men, not just to Americans and that America came into the world to see that these rights were gained for ourselves, but preserved for and extended to others. That's why they were cheering and that's why, my friends, that America and those who stand with us will win the struggle, not just hold the line, but win it for peace and freedom, because the people in the world are on our side. And so I say to you: We appreciate your coming. You must consider what I have had to say, but above everything else may I take you back to my first proposition: Consider our experience; consider our background; but, above all, remember, this is a decision for America. If you believe that Henry Cabot Lodge and I can provide the leadership that America needs, that will keep America strong militarily and economically, but above all that will keep America strong in its moral and spiritual strength, in the strength of its ideals - and you must help in doing that, too - if you believe these things, then I ask you to go out and work for our cause. I ask you to work, having in mind that you will be working not just for a man, not just for a party, but that you will be working for America and for everything she stands for. If you do that, we will win. Thank you.
Vice President NIXON. * * * Thank you very much. My friend Congressman Frank Bow, Mrs. Bow, all of the distinguished guests on the platform behind me, and this great audience here in the hall before me, and all of those on the outside whom Pat and I hope to come out and say "Hello" to after this meeting, we can't tell you how overwhelmed we are by this wonderful reception. Particularly, incidentally, it's 10 minutes to 3; you could be listening to a football game on television. But, certainly, to have this kind of a reception today, to have you give your time on a Saturday afternoon to come out and give us a chance to meet you, to talk to you, is a great experience for us, and we deeply appreciate it. This will go down as one of the great rallies of this campaign, coming at this time in the afternoon - we're sorry we're late, but the reason is that we've had big crowds. And I'm sure you're glad that we've been having big crowds. [Cheers and applause.] You know, before I talk on some of the issues that I want to discuss today, there are some personal matters that I wish to mention as I speak in this city. I remember one of the first speeches that I made after I became a U.S. Senator. It was in this area. And, on that occasion you were celebrating the birthday of William McKinley. Now, you know, for many, many years there used to he a great deal of talk about what a terrible President William McKinley was. I note that here we have students from Mount Union College [cheers], and also Malone College [cheers]. I suggest [an offside comment] and Wooster College [cheers]. I suggest that all of the college students alike, just to put history in perspective, read Margaret Leech's biography of William McKinley. I think you will get a new perspective of one of Ohio's great citizens, a Governor, and then President of the United States. So much for that. The second point that a I want to make is this: I'd like to say something about each of these colleges, but I have a special reason to mention Mount Union. [Cheers.] Now, I suppose you folks here wonder, now, how does a fellow from California know anything about Mount Union, one of the colleges in Ohio. And the reason is that I roomed in law school with one of your distinguished graduates, Lyman Brown - I field. And I had great respect for the education he got. I did reasonably well in law school, but I was third in class; he was second. So that means that he's a pretty smart fellow when he came from Mount Union, Ohio. [Cheers and applause.]  I'd like to say, too, that the opportunity has also presented, to mention something which will be appreciated. I understand that there may be some people from Sebring, Ohio, here. Is that right? Somewhere in the audience? Back there in the back? Well, I mention Sebring because one of the most important people on my whole staff came from Sebring. Frank knows her well - Rosemary Wood, my secretary, who is back on the plane, incidentally, doing some work. So, to the people of Sebring, I bring special greetings from her, and thank you for coming over to our meeting. [Applause.]  And then, the last point that I would like to mention of a personal nature, I think you will already guess. I'm always delighted to be on a program with Frank Bow. We have been colleagues together, worked together on many projects in Government, and I think that one of the things that pleased me most about the 1958 elections - and there were many things that weren't particularly pleasing - was that Frank Bow was one of the few Congressmen in the country who did better in 1958 than he did in 1956. That proves what you think of him. Let's get him the biggest vote ever in 1960. [Applause and cheers.]  One other thing I'd like to mention. You know, we see these wonderful crowds during the campaign. People, I suppose, in many instances, come out because the contest for the Presidency is so exciting. But let me tell you that for all of you who are voting this November remember: The contest for Congress, for the State legislature, for State office, for local office, are just as important to you. It takes all of them to provide the kind of government that America needs, and that your city, and your community needs. And so, for that reason I am glad to be on the platform with my fellow candidates here. I commend them all to you. Remember: Don't just work for the can-didate for the Presidency, but work for all of them, because it's that kind of team operation that makes responsible government and a two-party system possible. [Applause.]  Now, let me tell you about the last 2 days of campaigning that I have experienced. We were in Boston, Mass., 2 days ago. Now we didn't expect too much of a crowd there because, after all, that was the home State of our opponent. It was raining. And yet, a quarter of a million people were on the streets of Boston 2 days ago to welcome us. [Cheers and applause.] We were in upper New York State yesterday. It wasn't raining - it was pouring. The rain was coming down in sheets. We were an hour late because the plane had been delayed. And yet, after dark, between the hours of 7 and 9 o'clock as we were driving from the airport into the cities of Troy and Schenectady we found that literally thousands and thousands of people were standing there - the rain coming down - to greet us.  Now, why is it? Why this tremendous outpouring of people? Why this great crowd today, on a Saturday afternoon - a beautiful day when I know many of you would have other things you'd like to do? Why this tremendous interest that we've found from Maine to Hawaii, from California to Georgia, North, East, West, and South - because the crowds have been tremendous, the enthusiasm, also. I think something's going on in America today. In this campaign, it's a healthy thing. There's a tremendous interest in the people about the decision they're going to make this November the 8th. You're not going to be satisfied this year just to put a mark by the party label. You're not going to be satisfied this year just to vote the way somebody else told you to vote. You are going to vote the way you think it ought to be. You're going to vote the way you feel after you have heard the two candidates for the Presidency. Why is it that Americans are so concerned? Because you know that this election is terribly important, important to you, important to your city, to your State, to the Nation. The leadership that America selects this November will determine the course of the future for America. True. But it may well determine the course of the future for the whole world. And I find that people everywhere for that reason are looking more carefully at the candidates than they ever have before. They're looking beyond the labels. They're not voting in blocs and all that sort of thing as is sometimes the custom. And may I tell you today that on presenting my case to you, I want you to do that. I'm not saying to the Republicans here, "Look, vote for me, I'm a Republican." I am telling everybody here, whatever you are, Republican or Democrat or Independent, that when you're electing a President in this year 1960, America needs whoever is best, whether he's Democrat or Republican. We need the best leadership we have. And that's the basis we present our case to you today. [Cheers and applause.] Now, obviously I'm a bit prejudiced on that point. I'm a bit prejudiced, but on the other hand, I want to present my case, and to present the case also for my colleague, Cabot Lodge. And I want to present it in terms, first, of the most important issue. The one that cuts across all the rest. The one that everybody's interested in, wherever they come from. You know, lots of times you in college I'm sure hear how different Americans are: that the northerners don't agree with the southerners on this or that; and that the people in the labor unions don't agree with the people in management, and so forth. There are lots of differences, true. But one thing I found from talking to all kinds of groups in all States in this Nation is that everybody believes the most important thing for the United States to do is to have a President who can provide leadership that will keep the peace without surrender for America and for the world. [Applause.] More important than a job, more important than good schools, more important than health, and all these things. More important, why? Because we can have all the other things that spell progress, and all these other things that we are for, that I have programs that I will discuss today. But, we aren't going to be able to enjoy our good jobs our good health, or our good schools, unless we do preserve peace in the world, preserve it without surrender. Unless we do develop programs that will extend freedom, not just hold the line, but extend it throughout the world. And it's to that point that I want to talk first. And I know that I don't need to whet your interest on it. You've been looking at the United Nations, I am sure. You've seen Mr. Khrushchev upon television. You've seen President Eisenhower, Prime Minister Macmillan; perhaps Mr. Castro. You've heard the criticisms of our policies. You've heard the things that are wrong, as well as hearing some of us declare those things that are right. Let me say a word about criticism at this point. Criticism in an election campaign or out of an election campaign is one of the strengths of a free country. It is essential that our political opponents point out those things that are wrong with America in order that we can correct them. It is essential, however, that they be absolutely responsible in doing so, and not distort the record. That they tell the truth about America, whether it's wrong, or right. That in telling those things that are wrong, they also mention and keep in perspective the great strength of America. I want to make this clear at the outset as I discuss the issues of this particular matter, this matter of keeping peace, developing programs that will extend freedom. But as we look at this issue, how do you test our candidates? How do you test me? How do you test my opponent? How do you test the vice presidential candidates? The first test, of course, is our record. And I'm proud of that record in the field of foreign policy, as well as in other fields. I'm proud of it. I know that there are criticisms of it. But I say to you today that whether you're Democrat, or Republican, or Independent, every American will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for getting this Nation out of one war, keeping it out of others, and giving us peace without surrender today. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let's look at the critics a moment. They say "an uneasy peace." They say, "the Communists are causing trouble all over the world - blocked the President's visit to Tokyo; stoned the Vice President and his wife in Caracas." They say, "the United States has been standing still for 7½ years." They say, "the Communists have the initiative." They say, Senator Kennedy did, just 2 days ago in New York this: he said, 'I am tired of reading in the paper of what Mr. Khrushchev does. I am tired of reading in tire paper what Mr. Castro does. I want to read in the paper what President Eisenhower does." All that I can say is that he ought to quit talking and start reading the papers, and he'll see what President Eisenhower is doing. [Cheers and applause.] Oh, he isn't doing the same things Mr. Khrushchev is. No. He isn't trying to muscle into the Congo and take that newly independent country over as the Communists are trying to take it. He is working through the United Nations, working through the United Nations and supporting them, so that this newly independent country with such great hopes can keep its freedom, and keep its independence. And we can be proud that we're doing the right thing, and that the Communists are doing the wrong thing. Oh, he isn't doing like Mr. Khrushchev. No, we're not running riots in the world. We're not running riots against enemies in New York as he ran them, and he directed them, of course, from the Communist international movement against me in South America, and the President in Japan. No, we don't do that. But I say to you, have the sense of values of our world and of the American people changed that those who engage in putting on riots against an American Vice President, and an American President, gain prestige, and those of us that act like decent people lose it? Of course not. I say that the American people applaud President Eisenhower for his dignity, and they contrast it with the crudeness of Mr. Khrushchev as he has exemplified it at the United Nations. [Cheers and applause.] No, it's true you don't read in the paper that President Eisenhower has ordered marines to go in and shoot down the hundreds of thousands of innocent Cuban citizens, who at the present time are being misled by a demagogue - as Khrushchev went into Hungary and slaughtered thousands and thousands of Hungarians. But did Khrushchev gain by that? And do we lose because we are trying through the Organization of American States to get the Cuban people a chance to have a free choice to choose the kind of government they want, and to keep their freedom? Let's look at the facts. Let's be honest about it. No, my friends. All that I can say is this with regard to the criticism of the President and his record, and with regard to this whole field of foreign policy. First, we should not blame ourselves for what the Communists do abroad. Second, we've got to expect troubles in the world. And I'm not going to promise you today that if Cabot Lodge and I are elected we're going to solve them all, and that all the sailing's going to be smooth, because it isn't. And I'll tell you why it isn't going to be smooth, and why we can't promise it's going to be smooth, why we can't tell you some brave new leadership is going to change everything, and it's going to change Mr. Khrushchev, and change his attitudes. I'll tell you why. Because we know him. We know the Communists. We sat opposite the table with them. We know what they're trying to do. Here are fanatical, ruthless men who are determined to conquer the world, determined to conquer it by any means, if necessary. But when we consider them, then, we've got to recognize that they're going to cause us trouble - they're going to cause us trouble every time they can. They're not going to cause us trouble only if we do what they want us to do. And that means turn over the world to them. Oh, we can give in on Berlin, as we could have. And Mr. Khrushchev would have gone to the Paris Conference. He wouldn't have used a phony reason to blow it up. We can give in on these other subjects. But let me say this, let's be proud that the United States under President Eisenhower's leadership has been firm and nonbelligerent, that we have stood with our friends throughout the world, and have not allowed them to push us around. Let us remember that. [Applause.] And, so, there are some things, in other words, that President Eisenhower has done, and that our administration has done that are subject to criticism. There are other things that I think are not. But in any event, to keep in perspective, let us get just one thing straight. The record is one in which we have avoided the twin dangers of war on the one side, and surrender on the other. And it is to that objective that I pledge the next administration as well. Now how else must you judge us? Well, you've got to look at our experience. Well, as far as that experience is concerned, my colleague and I have been in this administration. For 7½ years we sat on the high councils of the Security Council and the Cabinet. We have participated in the decisions, giving advice when asked by the President on these matters involving Quemoy, and Matsu, and Lebanon, and others. We have had this experience over 7½ years. And this you must take into account. Now, in evaluating experience I don't need to say anything about my own. That's for other people to evaluate. But I can certainly say something about my running mate's. And I will say this: that I don't think any man in the world today could have done a better job. I don't think anybody has had more experience than he has in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom as our Ambassador to the United Nations, Henry Cabot Lodge, our vice presidential candidate. [Cheers and applause.] Why is that important? It's important because the character of the Vice Presidency has changed. And it will continue to change and grow. And he and I will work together in strengthening the United Nations, in strengthening the Organization of American States, in strengthening the instruments of peace, in strengthening the instruments that will extend freedom. And it is this that we present: two men. Two men who have been part of a record. Two men who know the men with whom we are dealing. Two men who recognize that in dealing with those who are on the other side of the conference table, we must base policies on the kind of men they are. And now I turn to policies. What must America do, what must we ask America to do, if we are to keep the peace without surrender? First, we've got to begin with the greatest military strength in the world. Why? Not because America ever wants to use its strength against anybody else. I say this, speaking from my own Quaker background, because I know that there are many who are concerned because American maintains military strength. Because we do not, as they say, take a more liberal attitude as some suggest in the field of disarmament. Let me just make this one point. We will always go the extra mile to negotiate, We will always make over every proposal and take every initiative, as President Eisenhower did, on disarmament, on open skies, on the use of outer space for peaceful purposes in his U.N. speech. But, on the other hand, if we really want peace, my friends, the way to destroy our hopes is for the United States ever to agree to disarm when the Russians aren't also doing it. Because the moment we become weaker than they are, then the danger of war is increased. That's why we insist that there must be inspection if we are to have disarmament. [Applause.] And so, as you consider us, we will be men of peace, men who believe in it as you believe in it. But we will be men who recognize that peace does not come easy. Who recognize that in the world in which we live, when you are confronted with ruthless men who will use power to destroy the peace, that we must be the guardians of peace. And that means strength. Military first. It means a second kind of strength. Economic strength. What do we mean by this? It means America must move forward economically. Move forward leaving none behind. Why do I say leaving none behind? Because, this Nation strong as it is economically, and we're the most productive nation in the world with over twice the gross national product of the Soviet Union, strong as it is we're in a race. And they are determined to catch us. And in order to stay ahead, America must move ahead. And that is why I have submitted proposals. Proposals in the field of health, in the field of education which will see to it that we give more and more of our young people the opportunity to develop their potentialities to the full. So that none of our young Americans who have the ability to go to college are denied the right to go there, and to become great scientists, or great lawyers, or great doctors if they have these abilities, simply because of the circumstances under which they were born. These are programs for which I stand. Also, we believe in programs which would deal with the problems of unemployment more effectively. Programs which will deal with the problems of the depressed areas. All of these. If you could read our platform, my speeches in detail, you would see those things we stand for. Now, how do we differ from our opponents here? Don't they believe in these things? Of course. There isn't any question about goals here. All Americans, Democrats and Republicans, want the country to move forward. All Americans, Democrats and Republicans, want better education, better housing, better health, better jobs for our people. What's the difference, then? Well, putting it in a nutshell, we can produce, and they can't. And that's it in a nutshell. [Cheers and applause.] Putting it in a nutshell, they promise more, but they will do less. [Applause.] Promise more? I know somebody suggested to me the other day. They said, now, Mr. Nixon just a minute. How possibly can you ever win on issues like health, and education, and jobs, and the like, when your opponent goes around and advocates programs that will cost billions of dollars more than yours? And my answer is, well, the people aren't dumb. They know that he isn't going to pay for those programs with his money, but with their money. And they want to see that they get their money's worth. [Applause and cheers.] And, so, as you evaluate a program, remember: it isn't the question in determining whether a program is going to produce the schools, and the houses, and everything else that we want, of how much the Federal Government spends, it's a question of what the whole country does. Let me point something up. In the last 7½ years we've built more schools, built more hospitals, more dams, more in all of the areas that spelled progress than of any period in our history. Is this because the Federal Government did all these things? No. It was because the Federal Government did what it should, but it was because the Federal Government at the same time, stimulated and encouraged the real source of power and growth in our economy. You know what it is? And this is the secret of America's strength. The secret of strength in America, the key to growth, is not what Government does, but what 180 million free Americans are encouraged to do by their Government. [Cheers and applause.] And it is because our programs, our programs are designed always to encourage individual enterprise, never to encourage it [Vice President obviously meant to say "discourage it"]; always to strengthen the responsibilities of State and local government, not to discourage it; always to have the Federal Government taking the initiative, moving forward in these periods, but never doing anything that would sap the energies of our people, or discourage them from contributing what they can to America's progress. And, so, in a nutshell, again, I say: our programs will produce, while theirs will not. Now, a third area of strength that I should mention. We need, also, strength in our diplomacy. By strength in diplomacy, as I mentioned a moment ago, we need firmness without belligerence. Now, I say "without belligerence" for this reason: I know that there were those who had thought the President at times, particularly after the last Paris conference, might have talked back to Mr. Khrushchev more than he did. All that I can say is this: Whoever is President of this country can't enjoy the luxury of ever losing his temper when engaging in a war of words might heat up the international atmosphere to where we have a nuclear explosion. President Eisenhower for that reason was right in holding his temper. It isn't easy. I had the experience of talking to Mr. Khrushchev. I held my temper too, but it's hard. But let me say this: In dealing with him, or dealing with anybody, remember this - not only must we not engage in a war of words, we can be firm without engaging in insults. And I would only say that if we consider the President, his conduct at the U.N.,. his conduct at the Paris conference, remember that when a nation is strong, when you know that you're right, you never get down to the level of somebody who engages in the kind of talk that Mr. Khrushchev does. You keep your dignity. [Cheers and applause.] There's another point that should be made. When American policy is right, when it is one that has been supported by the Congress, when you are doing things which are in the interests of defending the whole free world, then America must stand firm for those policies. And I want to say that in indicating the things that we will and we won't do, that it is essential that whoever is President of this country never apologize or express regrets for doing whatever is necessary to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, there is the line. Firmness but not belligerence. Firmness because if you have a program in which you make concessions without getting concessions in return, it whets the appetite of the dictator, it is the road to war, not the road to peace. And this is the road we pledge to follow. The other point that I would make is the most essential element of power of all. It is one that I would like to tell you your next President and the Vice President will provide. But he can only help, whoever he is. This is the power of our ideas. I know that people often say to me, "Now, Mr. Nixon, as somebody who recognizes, and who has dealt with the Communist leaders through the years, how can you possibly put so much stress on moral and spiritual values and strengths? What good are they against the missiles, and the rockets that Mr. Khrushchev has? What good are they against the tremendous productivity which he claims he is going to have for his economy?" And my answer is this: The tyrants, through civilization, the materialists, and the militarists have always made a major error. They have underestimated the power of moral and spiritual strength. They have underestimated the power of ideas. Pat and I saw it. We saw it in Poland a year ago. We have seen it in other countries around the world. But in Poland, particularly, we saw it. On a Sunday afternoon, when the Polish Government didn't even print the parade route with which we were going to ride in the city. They didn't want to have a big demonstration. It might have been embarrassing, with Khrushchev having been there 2 weeks before. But there were people there - because in a Communist country the word gets around by word of mouth. People, not a few, a quarter of a million on the streets of Warsaw, on that Sunday afternoon. Shouting, yes, as you are. Shouting, cheering, throwing hundreds of bouquets into our cars as they went down through the streets of Warsaw, jamming around and stopping them in the middle of the city. Shouting "Niech Zyje, America," long live, America. And as I looked into their faces, grown men, grown women crying with tears coming down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily, as we are. Not because we're the richest country in the world, as we are. But because we stood for something else: Belief in the dignity of men. [Applause.] Belief that the rights that men have for freedom, the rights that nations have to independence, that these rights belong to all nations, and all peoples, that they cannot be taken away by man. These things, may I say to you, these are the things that count. [Applause.] And this idealism, call it what you will, this moral and spiritual strength of America cannot come just from its leaders. It must come from the people. This is built where? It is built in the homes. It is built in the schools. It is built in the churches of this land of ours. And so I say to you, keep America strong in her idealism, with a burning faith in the rightness of our cause. Keep her strong, and see that the young people in this country appreciate the privilege of living in this country, a privilege which they are able to use by voting in election campaign. Because, if you do that, the American President will then not only have military strength, and economic strength, which the Communists have, but he will have moral and spiritual power which they do not have. And that will be decisive. That will be decisive. [Cheers and applause.] My time is up. May I just say in conclusion. Again, that the decision on November 8th is too big to be made on the basis of party labels. Look beyond the labels. It is too big to he made on the basis of a personality. Look beyond that. It should be made on the basis of this Nation, what is best for America. And if you believe, my friends, if you believe that our team is the one that can provide the leadership that America needs; if you believe that this is the best leadership that this Nation can provide for this period, then I ask you to do something. I ask you to go out and not only vote for it, but work for it. I ask you to work for it, having in mind that you're objective is not just only working for a man, and it isn't just working for a party. Work, having in mind the fact that you will be working for what is best for America, for the ideals for which America has always stood. If you do that, the decision America makes on November the 8th will be best for America, for you, and for the whole world. Thank you, very much. [Cheers and applause.]
On Thursday, Senator Kennedy made a major address on foreign policy at Syracuse, N.Y. In it, he dealt at length with a number of subjects, including the situation which now exists in the United States General Assembly meeting. He said, among other things, that he was "tired of reading every morning what Mr. Khrushchev is doing or what Mr. Castro is doing." "I want," said Senator Kennedy, "to read what the President of the United States is doing." If Mr. Kennedy would stop looking so hard for things that are wrong with America's position and America's prestige he would not have made such a reckless and irresponsible attack on the President. If he would talk less and read more he would have learned that the President has been giving dynamic leadership in this situation to the cause of peace and freedom. He has been applauded by the entire world. What is it that he has been reading every morning about Mr. Khrushchev? He has been reading about Mr. Khrushchev's boorish conduct on the Assembly floor, his attacks on the Secretary-General his desk poundings, his rude interruptions of the British Prime Minister, conduct which has shocked the world. Is this the kind of action that Senator Kennedy wants from the President? Or is he talking about the actions of the Soviet Union as contrasted with those of the United States? Should the United States have dealt with the Cuban people who have been the victim's of Castro's demagoguery, as Khrushchev dealt with the Hungarian patriots in the streets of Budapest? Certainly, the Senator must agree with the President in rejecting such line of action. Certainly, he cannot believe that in the Congo the United States should have followed Khrushchev's example and attempted to muscle its way in and shatter forever the hopes of these people for independence. He must agree that we can be proud that we acted in support of the United Nations to save the independence of the Congo. Is he talking about our efforts to assist the newly developing free nations of the world to gain economic progress through freedom? Should we be making news as Khrushchev makes news by giving aid only with the chains of conquest firmly attached? Or is he willing to concede, when he thinks it out, that it is not the headlines we should be seeking but constructive, patient, constant work in behalf of the cause of peace with freedom in the world? What Senator Kennedy should realize, and what virtually all of the free peoples of the world can clearly recognize, is that the future of the United Nations itself and of its powerful influence for peace is being preserved by American leadership, by the leadership of President Eisenhower. He should recognize what the world sees - that the hopes of the free nations, those which now exist, and those which are coming into being, are relying on this leadership. If he were really reading instead of talking, he would have learned that every one of Mr. Khrushchev's efforts to sabotage the U. N. and these hopes of the world have been overwhelmingly rejected by the representatives of the nations in New York. Senator Kennedy has a right and a responsibility, as the opposition candidate, to criticize the administration record. But he also has a responsibility when he criticizes to be right about what he says. I cannot allow this attack on the President's leadership and his prestige to go unanswered when it carries with it the hopes of the entire world at this crucial moment. The Senator owes it to his party and to his country to cease these irresponsible attacks on the President of the United States.
Mr. NIXON. Yesterday, as we were traveling through upper New York State in a pouring rain thousands and thousands of people came out to political rallies. You know I have been wondering why it is that these Crowds have been so large and I think all of you, perhaps, have wondered the same thing. I think that the reason for it is pretty clear. I think it is the same reason you are here today. Of course, some people are here because you are curious. You want to see somebody who might be the President or the First Lady, or both - not at the same time, of course. [Laughter.] You also want the opportunity to hear one of the candidates for the Presidency, but above all, I think what these crowds mean in this election campaign is that the American people know that the decision they are going to make this November 8 is one of the most important ones they are ever going to make in their lives; important, why? Because you are determining the future of this country, your future, our children's future and the future of the world. And, incidentally, speaking of our children's future, we have had many, many exciting events on this campaign. We have great musical organizations. I don't think I have ever seen such a colorful and splendid array of band music as I see there today. How about giving them a hand over there? [Applause.] And it is about the future of these young people and our future that I want to talk to you today. What are we most concerned about? Why is it that Americans sense that this is a tremendously important election? I think the reason for it is that we have had an opportunity in recent days to see first hand those forces that threaten the peace of the world. You have been reading about and hearing about the sessions of the United Nations. You have seen Mr. Khrushchev in action there. You have also, I am sure, had an opportunity to see or hear President Eisenhower as he spoke there. And all of this has tended to bring home to the American people a fact that we cannot and must not overlook, and that is that whatever solutions we work out for all problems we have at home that the most important thing for us to remember is that we must have leadership which will keep the peace for America and the world, without surrender. [Applause.] Now, I say that is the most important thing and I think all of you will agree. Most important, because you know we can have the best jobs, the best schools, the best welfare programs in the world and it isn't going to make any difference, if we are not around to enjoy it. So, the first point that I want to discuss today is that. What kind of leadership does America need? What should you consider as you vote for President and Vice President on that issue? Now, the easy thing for me to say in this respect would be, I am a Republican, you are Republicans, if you are, and if you will simply vote for me for that reason. But, I am going to say today what I have said all over the country, north, east, west, and south. The issue of survival for America and the world is so important. It is so important that America have the best leadership, whatever party may be that we can provide, that I ask everybody listening to me to make the decision not on the basis of the party label, the candidates for the Presidency and the Vice President, but make it on this basis: What does America need? What are the best leaders America can have of those from whom you have to choose. So with that, I present my case, the case for me as well as for my colleague and my running mate. You must judge us by a number of standards and the first is our record. Look at that record for a moment. For 7½ years Cabot Lodge and I have been participants in the policy councils of this administration. In the Cabinet, the National Security Council, and other meetings of the President, we have advised on those great decisions, the decisions on Quemoy and Matsu, on Lebanon, and others which involved maintaining the line between war on the one side and surrender on the other. And so you must hold us accountable for that record and also you can give us credit for that record to the extent that we have participated in it. Now, there are those who criticize the record and they have a right to speak where they think it is wrong. But, my friends, all of the criticism in the world cannot obscure the truth which the American people, Democrat and Republican, know to be the truth and that is this: that under the leadership of President Eisenhower, we have ended one war, we have kept this country out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. [Applause.] Now, moving from that record to our qualifications, I cannot appropriately talk about my own experience, that is for others to decide, but I can say something about my running mate's. And I would say that those of you who had the opportunity to see and hear him represent us at the United Nations will agree with the statement I am about to make and that is that no man as a more experience, no man could have done a better job, standing courageously and representing articulately the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President of the United States, and our Ambassador to the U.N. [Applause.] And so there is our team, two men who for 7 years, who have worked with President Eisenhower. Two men who know the Communist leaders, who have sat across the conference table from them, and that brings me to my third point. If we are to keep the peace without surrender, what are we going to ask the American people to do, what are the policies that we are going to advocate for America? Let me say, first, my friends, the most important decision for us to make is to base our policies on what the realities are and that is we must know the man with whom we are dealing, and Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues are not like the leaders of the free world. They are not like the people you and I know in this country. They have an entirely different set of values. They are people who are determined to conquer the world and they will follow no rules of the game whatever, and this means, in other words, that we need in order to deal with them to develop the strength, we need to have the realism, which will effectively stop their plans and stop them without war. How can we do that? First, we must see to it that America continues to be what she is today and that is the strongest nation in the world, militarily. [Applause.] And secondly, we must see that America continues to move forward economically. Why is this important? Let me give you an example. When I was in the Soviet Union, I remember Mr. Khrushchev speaking to me, bragging about his accomplishments and the accomplishments of the Soviet empire in the economic area. And he said in his most arrogant and insulting tone, he said, "Mr. Vice President, you may be ahead of us now, but" he said, "we are moving faster than you are and we are going to catch you; when we catch you we are going to pass you by; and when we do, we are going to wave and say, 'Come on, follow us; do as we do or you are going to fall way behind in this race.'" And he said, "We are going to catch you in 7 years." Now, the answer is that he isn't going to catch us in 7 years or 70 years provided Americans stay true to the great principles that have made us the country that we are today. [Applause.] And being true to those principles, I mean this: the Federal Government must assume the responsibilities which are properly its responsibilities, responsibilities that I have spelled out and will continue to spell out during the course of this campaign, to see to it that in education, in science, in health, that we move forward and that if we, the individuals and the States and the local governments, cannot or will not do the jobs that need to be done to spell progress, the Federal Government will step in and stimulate them to do it or do the job itself.  We must move in all of these areas. We must move also in a way that will see that our economy moves forward so that there are more jobs, at better wages, better wages in real money, so that the people of this country will have an opportunity to have not any inflated wages, but also the opportunity to meet their bills at the end of the month, because their prices, at the same time, will be kept within reason. These things, then, are responsibilities of the Federal Government. And I could tell you today that I have programs in all of these fields that I think are best for America, that will spell progress for America, and I realize my opponent, of course, will say exactly the same thing as he has a right to do. And then, you have the choice, which one is right. One says he is for progress in all these fields and the other says he is, how can we choose? And again, I say look at our record, and, first, in our record I point to the fact that in the 7 Eisenhower years, as compared with the 7 Truman years, we have moved further and faster in health and education and welfare than in all the Truman years before. [Applause.] And second, I say that our programs in all these fields will work where theirs won't. Why do I say that? I say that because we will stimulate the creative energies of 180 million Americans and not simply rely on the Federal Government as the end and as the means of accomplishing progress in the United States. [Applause.] And you see, my friends, that is the way America got where it is today, not by weakening individuals, not by taking responsibility from our people, not by discouraging individual enterprise, not by weakening our States and our local governments, but by strengthening, by getting every bit of effort that we can out of each segment of the local American economy. That is why I say our programs will work where theirs won't. However, you have to take this into account: My opponent can say to you he is going to spend more money in health and education and welfare, in these various fields, than the programs that I advocate will cost. But I ask you to think for a moment. Some people will say since he is going to spend more than you will spend, that means that his programs are better. But think for a moment. He isn't going to be spending his money, but your money, and that makes a big difference. [Applause.] And I say to you that the American people can have, and they want progress in these fields, but they want progress in which whoever is President of this country recognizes that every dollar that is spent in Washington is a dollar that must come from the people, and that not one dollar should be spent in Washington that does not need to be spent, because when you don't spend it there it means you have more to meet the problems of the family budget and that is something all of you understand and it is something that I understand because I know what it is. [Applause.] And so I say that in keeping America strong militarily and economically, we will do a job, we will produce progress, which they can only promise. Now, a third point that I should make: In addition to this strength, economically and militarily, America must have a firm diplomatic policy, one, again, that will be designed to meet the kind of men who confront us in the world, and again we must look at them and see how they react. We find, again, as I pointed out a moment ago, that they do not follow the rules of conduct that we expect from them in the free world. For example, you must never make a concession to the Communist dictators without getting one in return. Another example, you will find in dealing with them that when you do make concessions, which are not accompanied by ones in return, that it never satisfies them, that it doesn't win their confidence or their support, or their friendship, but that what it does is simply develop contempt for you, so that they insist on more concessions in the future. That is why, my friends, that is why the President of the United States has been correct in being firm in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev and not belligerent. That is why he has insisted that while he will always go an extra mile to negotiate disarmament or reduction of tensions, that he will never agree to weaken the United States unless we are sure that the Soviet Union is also reducing its military power at the same time. [Applause.] And that is why the President of the United States conducted himself as he did at the Paris Conference. You'll remember that Conference that Mr. Khrushchev broke off over the U-2 flights. You will remember that some of our people criticized the President afterward and said that he might have tried to save the Conference by regretting or apologizing. Let me tell you why that would have been a mistake, why the President was right. First, because expressing regrets or apologizing for that action wouldn't have gained anything for Mr. Khrushchev; he would only have asked for more. Secondly, there is another reason. Whenever the President of the United States is doing the right thing, whenever he is defending this country, he should not apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev or anybody else in the world. [Applause.] So, now I say with military strength and economic strength and diplomatic firmness, we have the ingredients of policy that will keep the peace, that will extend freedom throughout the world. There is one element that I should mention, however, which is particularly important to bear in mind. This great struggle in which we are engaged is not just one of strength of our arms or the productivity of our factories. That is all it is to the Communists. That is all it is they have to offer. But let Americans never forget that we stand for something more than that. Let Americans never forget that when we were a small nation and a weak nation 170 years ago, that we still were a strong nation in the minds of the world, because our ideals were strong. What are they? What do we stand for? We stand for faith in God, we stand for belief in dignity of every man, woman, and child regardless of his background. We stand for the right of all men to be free, not just Americans. We stand for the right of each nation to be independent, not just the American Nation. These things are ideals, you say. They will not stand up against the military might, the economic productivity of the Kremlin. And my answer is this: Those who are the militarists and those who are the materialists have always underestimated the strength of ideals and let America never forget that our greatest strength is moral and spiritual and, may I say to this great audience, remember this strength that I speak of cannot come only from a President. He can help. But it must come from you. This strength, this faith, belief in these ideals, must come from the hearts of our people. They are developed in the homes, in the churches, in the schools of America, and I ask all of you, as you see these young people here, let us see that they grow up recognizing what a privilege it is to live in this country, realizing that America stands for more than wealth and more than might, realizing that the ideals in which we believe are ideals worth fighting for, but they are ideals that belong to all the world and if you do this, then the next President of the United States, whoever he is, will be able to carry the fight for freedom throughout the world, and he will be able to win this struggle and win it without war and that is our objective. [Applause.] So, in conclusion, may I say to you, again, how deeply we appreciate your coming and giving me the chance to speak to you and Pat and me the chance to meet you. May I tell you that there is nothing more inspiring to a candidate to see a great crowd like this spending your time to consider the issues before the country, and may I urge you this: If you believe that the leadership that we can provide is a leadership that America needs, then may I ask you to go out and not only vote for us, but will you work for us, having in mind that you will be voting and working not just for a man or a party, but for what is best for America, and that is also best for you. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
COMBATING DISEASE IN THE SIXTIES The United States offers its citizens the most advanced medical care in the world. Even so, every family in the Nation is threatened by disease every day of their lives; the cost of health care for our people now exceeds $25 billion a year and additional billions are exacted by lost wages due to sickness. There is no instrument on earth that can measure the human cost in suffering, fear, and heartbreak. During the past 7½ years the Nation has seen a dramatic explosion of medical research activity. As recently as 1953, appropriations for the seven National Institutes of Health and their research and services were at the level of less than $60 millions a year. In the past fiscal year these appropriations totaled $400 millions. A few weeks ago the President signed an appropriation totaling $560 millions for the new year. The funding of research projects supported by these Institutes has increased sevenfold from 2,054 grants totaling $20 millions in 1953 to 9,166 grants totaling $142 millions last year. Despite America's unexcelled record of medical advance, we cannot rest until the other scourges which afflict mankind have been brought under control, as have poliomyelitis and other childhood killers - pneumonia, and the great decimators such as smallpox, yellow fever, typhus, cholera, and bubonic plague. At the present time we wage the battle against cancer, heart disease, and mental illness, With the rapid advance of scientific knowledge in other fields, there are repeated demands for crash programs to eradicate these scourges. People argue from the example of the atom bomb that all we need is similar massive effort in the conquest of disease. If we spend enough money fast enough, it is suggested, we can develop cures in a short time. But, of course, the situation with respect to dreaded diseases is not the same as with the atom bomb. In the case of nuclear science, the basic research and the critical key experiments had already been completed before the Manhattan project was launched. Major scientific breakthroughs had already demonstrated to our physical scientists how they might achieve a practical result.  TO ACHIEVE BREAKTHROUGHS IN MEDICINE We have few comparable breakthroughs in the life sciences. As yet we do not have the fundamental knowledge of disease processes in order to cure our major remaining killers. However, we have now reached the point where we see how major breakthroughs in medical research can be achieved. The tremendous scientific revolution of our times, especially in the field of electronics and nuclear physics, has provided new tools for research and experiment. Physicians and scientists in fields closely allied to medicine have told me how they are already probing below the level of the body's cells and have begun to explore the molecules in the cells - the fundamental area where both normality and disease are controlled. We are, therefore, now in a position to further this mounting scientific attack upon disease and health problems by broad general programs directed toward the support of research, training of medical, dental, and other health manpower, and expansion of health care facilities. This will not be simple or easy. It will call for the most advanced techniques of scientific coordination. Medicine itself is extraordinarily complex and has many component parts - physicians and scientists; schools for training them; hospitals for the care of the ill and institutes to develop techniques of treatment, care and practice - and all of these parts are closely interlocked. No one group can confine itself to a single aspect of medicine. All of them - medical and dental schools, hospitals and research institutes - provide medical care, teaching and research training. In no other scientific field is there such intense and constant interplay between research, teaching, and practice.  However, this vital complex in its relation to national needs is confronted with serious problems. (1) In spite of our extraordinary progress, we are not yet graduating enough physicians, dentists and other health personnel to keep up with our growing population. At the present rate, the doctor shortage, already troublesome, will become critical before 1970. (2) Today there are many more vacancies in medical school faculties than there were in 1950 and this situation is growing worse, not better. Accentuating these disturbing developments are basic problems of finance both for the student and for the school. It costs the medical schools far more than the tuition they charge to qualify a student for his M.D. degree. As a result, medical schools cannot afford to pay medical faculty salaries that are even competitive with private practice or industry It should also be borne in mind that it costs the average medical school student between $9,000 and $12,000 to complete medical school. More than 40 percent of the medical students come from families whose income is over $10,000 a year. hence, medical education is not generally available even to the qualified because of its heavy financial cost. I have already recommended, in my statement on general education, that tax credits or deductions should be granted for tuition and other costs of higher education. I have also proposed a permanent student loan fund and a program of competitive Federal scholarships, up to $1,000 a year, for students whose families cannot meet the rising costs of education. In that statement I also considered in general the problems of medical education. In the recommendations that follow I will set forth more specific proposals with regard to the medical student and the medical school. We are only at the beginning of the mounting demand for medical research facilities. As this research acquires new dimensions, it will call for the services of mathematicians, physicists, chemists, engineers, and similar scientists. These additional scientists will need intricate, precise, and expensive equipment if they are to succeed in their quest for new knowledge that can lead to the understanding, cure, and prevention of disease.  A PLAN TO CORRECT REMAINING DEFICIENCIES In order to correct remaining deficiencies, gird to meet the present and future medical needs, and mobilize our medical resources to the fullest, we should initiate the following programs: (1) Presidential responsibility. - The leadership and full persuasion of the Presidency will be needed to mobilize increased effort behind our medical and dental schools, hospitals, and institutes. An expanding part of this effort should come from private sources, since every American has a vital, personal concern with illness. Corporations, industries, labor unions, foundations and individuals must be urged to redouble their efforts and their contributions. (2) Federal Medical Fellowships. - The Federal Government itself must play an increasing role in overcoming the problems of our medical schools and in furthering the advance of medicine. The future indeed holds the promise of a golden age. In pressing toward its attainment in the field of medicine we must be sure that adequate support is available to new men and to promising new ideas. We need, first, to provide financial assistance not only to the medical student but also to the medical school. For example, today about two out of every three graduate science students are being helped from Federal funds. Practically none of these funds is available for the education of medical students. I propose that the Federal Government initiate an adequate fellowship program for medical students. On the basis of competitive examinations and individual need about half of our medical students would be eligible for such fellowships. Subject to regular review and readjustment, these fellowships would be administered so that a portion would pay for tuition and help support the school's basic fiscal situation; and also would provide a firm base from which to establish new medical schools. The remaining portion would be a loan to the medical student. This fellowship program would make it possible for our best students to go into medicine and would prevent our best potential talent from entering other fields because they cannot afford full medical training. In turn, it would permit the medical schools to raise faculty salaries and enlarge the teaching staff. It would also add to the urgently needed pool of new teachers and research personnel. Such a program would alleviate the serious financial plight now facing our medical schools and impairing their ability to provide the best facilities for training an adequate number of physicians. It is a necessary investment in order to avoid a doctor shortage. (3) Federal support of medical research. - The national need to increase the number of medical students here is created a pressing demand for new medical schools and the modernization and expansion of existing facilities. The cost of meeting this demand is beyond the resources now available to the medical schools. As our cadre of research men increases, we must make certain that our national research and training programs contribute as well to the strengthening of our medical training and research institutions. These programs must be aimed at enlarging our country's research resources. This year the National Institutes of Health will initiate institutional grants. These grants, to institutions rather than to individual scientists, will help these institutions to develop well-rounded research programs. They also will permit prompt starts on promising research leads. This type of grant will be increased and its base broadened, but care must be taken to permit institutions to use these funds where the greatest need is found and the best prospect of a breakthrough develops. Special funds have now been set aside for new research professorships and fellowships, and their number will be increased in succeeding years. This will permit academic departments with limited budgets to add new scientific manpower, even in different fields. In this way, a Department of Surgery could acquire a physicist, engineer, or chemist without sacrificing surgical personnel. Additionally, we must be sure that, in increasing Federal support of research projects, an overwhelming burden is not placed on the financial structure of the medical schools. There will need to be a greater Federal sharing in the overhead costs of the supported research. (4) A 10-year construction program. - Finally, we should launch an accelerated 10-year program to establish new medical facilities and research laboratories, and to overcome existing deficiencies and obsolescence. Our existing matching grant program to build health research facilities has already resulted in attracting about $4 additional for every Federal dollar allocated to develop badly needed laboratories. Thus this program has brought about the construction and equipping of more than half a billion dollars worth of health research facilities, with a Federal contribution of but $30 million a year. If we doubled the present program of Federal participation, and if we could continue to attract such matching support, the medical education and research establishment of the Nation would be modernized and expanded at the end of the decade of the sixties by nearly $3 billion. Of course, the actual rate of increased emphasis in this area would be in large part determined by the ability of our medical research and educational institutions and personnel to absorb the expansion.  THE PLAN FOR EXPANSION But this program needs expansion to help meet serious deficiencies in teaching facilities at medical and dental schools, and at other schools where health personnel are trained. I have already recommended a general program of matching Federal grants and loans to assist our colleges and universities in meeting the requirements of their rapidly increasing enrollment. But the medical schools have the additional problem of providing high-cost research facilities and laboratories. The administration of this program will have to be flexible in order that the amounts allocated to any particular project may be related continuously to the urgency of the project and the availability of funds from Federal, non-Federal, and private sources. By these proposals we can mount a great new offensive against the age-old scourges of mankind. We, as a people, can afford to invest whatever can be constructively used to conquer these dread diseases of mind and body. We cannot afford to do less. We can ask all nations to join with us in this great task and can freely offer to them the fruits of our efforts. Particularly we should give effective support to U.S. participation in international medical research. There is fulfillment for us all in the knowledge that in this way we will be serving not only ourselves and our children but also all mankind, now and in the ages yet to come.
My meeting here in Charlotte with a representative group of leaders of the textile and garment manufacturing industries has been most useful. It has given me an opportunity to discuss with highly informed people, at firsthand, the problems threatening the future of hundreds of thousands of workers of these industries, and of the industries themselves. Not only have these industries historically been a fundamental element in the American economy, but they are also regarded by the Department of Defense as second only to the steel industry in their essentiality to our military defenses. Our discussion today related principally to the impact of imports and to the dramatic penetration of various segments of the industry by shipments from abroad. This pressure from competing textile industries in countries where wage scales and other economic standards are far below ours is a matter of concern, not only to an important industry, but also to the health of our economy as a whole. It is my conviction, and I have stated it many times, that we must have strong trade relations with other free world nations. We cannot be isolated in the economic world any more than we can be isolated in the world of the intercontinental ballistic missile. America's trade policy must recognize that we are the world's largest importer and exporter, trading with countries whose dependence on foreign commerce is greater than our own. But I emphatically do not believe that this national trade policy means marking certain industries, such as the textile and garment industries, as expendable. It doesn't make sense to me to require one or a few industries to bear the whole burden that foreign policy decisions may require. Nor does it make sense to me that an industry like cotton textiles bear an inequitable burden as a result of efforts to adjust wartime agricultural policies to peacetime needs. To the end of assisting the textile and garment industries and their workers to meet the problems ahead, I am determined to explore every constructive line of action. (1) I strongly support the platform of my party which calls for "effective administration" of the escape clause and peril point provisions of our trade legislation "to safeguard American jobs and domestic industries against serious injury." To me that pledge means exactly what it says. I find little for an industry like cotton textiles in the so-called trade adjustment proposal of my opponent's platform except to put it on the dole or "adjust" it out of the textile business. (2) I favor more vigorous and imaginative efforts through diplomatic channels to make greater and more effective use of voluntary limitation of shipments by other countries whose penetration of American markets is proceeding at a pace which threatens orderly development of those markets by domestic producers. (3) The subsidy being paid on cotton exports has been a major help in bringing order and stability to our cotton production and marketing activity, but it has intensified the problems of domestic textile producers. This is inequitable for American mills and workers. Various solutions for this problem have been proposed and I pledge my best efforts to find one that is fair and sound. (4) Our diplomatic resources should be used unreservedly to remove remaining roadblocks to increasing our exports abroad, to create wider opportunities among other nations for imports from low-wage countries, and to encourage the development of fair labor standards in exporting countries in the interest of fair competition in international trade. (5) In order to make sure that the developments in the cotton textile industry are under adequate review, I shall direct the appropriate departments of the Government to equip themselves with proper special assistance. These and other approaches to the problems of the vitally important textile and garment industries can help protect the jobs of many American wage earners and contribute to the general health of the economy. I regard the plight of these industries as a special situation requiring high priority attention. With determination and imagination, I am confident that their future can be made bright.
Senator Kennedy has promised many things in this campaign. These he has promised for a nation which he views darkly as being on the defensive in a world dominated by communism, held in contempt by those who love freedom, its military forces relatively weak and out of date, a tenth of its people verging on starvation, its educational system woefully behind, the entire Nation teetering on economic depression - and one of its two great political parties dead set against human welfare, addicted to human misery, against decent schooling for children, anxious for the elderly to live in poorhouses and unattended when ill - a party truly content only when people are out of work. This strange preoccupation with despair has led Senator Kennedy to urge some very interesting proposals. For example, to keep our country from remaining, as he sees it, relatively second rate, he promises to raise your social Security tax. To strengthen our country from within, he promises to move the Federal Government into the very heart of your school system by providing Federal dollars for use to pay the salaries of your teachers, which would inevitably bring Federal control of what is taught. To assure a vital economy, he promises a minimum wage that official studies show would force unemployment and business failures. To protect the unfortunate, he promises to give the wealthiest people in American a helping hand with medical costs in their later years, while withholding help from some 3 million people with incomes of $2,000 or less; in fact, in the name of freedom he would force this medical program on one and all, save the 3 million who need help the most. For vitality in the farmlands, he promises to regiment all agriculture from now on. To build for the future, he promises a program that will price cotton out of markets so that synthetics will take over; as a result, to keep America ahead, your cotton acreages will he cut, cut again, and then cut some more. Time and time again Senator Kennedy has promised to carry out all of the irresponsible contradictions bundled into the 1960 Democratic platform, adopted 6 weeks ago in Los Angeles. He changed his mind a hit on this in our debate last week. I believe Senator Kennedy is going to take time to read some of his other platform promises. I commend this to him in the hope that he will repudiate or revise other parts of his platform and perhaps, on reflection, will decide to keep the plank he rewrote during our first debate. There has been some talk around the country that Senator Kennedy really does not agree with a number of his platform pledges. I call upon him to say exactly where he agrees and where he disagrees. And I want him to state his views in exactly the same way in the North, the East, the South, and the West, so everyone in every part of America will clearly understand his position.
I realize that in this great audience are many Democrats as well as many Republicans, that listening on television and radio are members of both parties, but I would say that all people believe that the people of this country want a choice. They need a choice, and I'm glad that my party offers a fine choice for Governor, for Congress, and for the other offices in this State. If you in this hall would forgive me for a moment while I speak to the television audience, this broadcast is being carried in South Carolina. We originally were scheduled to meet with you today as well, but because of the heavy commitments here we found that we couldn't do justice to South Carolina. But we'll be there because we intend to carry both North and South Carolina this year. Now, I'm sure that many of the political pundits will say, "That's a pretty rash statement. How can that Vice President even stand up here and say he has even a chance in North and South Carolina, two States in which there are heavy Democratic majorities as far as Democratic registration is concerned?" And I'll tell you why I think we have a chance. Because of great audiences like this. Because of the great audience I saw in Greensboro earlier in August. Because as I have traveled throughout the States, I have found a tremendous interest in those States where there are heavy Democratic registrations in our cause. I remember Memphis just a few days ago - 30,000 people standing in the rain at noontime. Why? Why this crowd? Why the crowd at Greensboro? Why the crowd at Memphis? Why at Atlanta? Why in other areas that are heavily Democratic? I'll tell you why. I think it's because the people of this country, Democrat and Republican alike, recognize a very solid fact, and I will get at it by pointing out what my opponent believes and what I believe. He was quoted in the paper to the effect that the American people should vote their party in an election campaign. I say to you, whether you are Republicans or Democrats, that when we elect a President of the United States it isn't the party but America that comes first - and that's what the Americans are going to vote for this year. I say to all of those listening to me: Whether you are of my party or the other party, listen to me, listen to my opponent, and think of the country first, because America can afford nothing but the best leadership, the best leadership in either party, and I submit my case to you on that ground and I suggest that you consider what I have to say, my record, and also my program in terms of that rather than in terms of the label that I wear. We must get beneath the label. We must get at what the men stand for. This is the least that America demands from her voters this year, and this is why Democrats by the millions are going to vote for our ticket and not the other ticket in the election this November. I realize that that raises a problem. Some of my Democratic friends might say, "Now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon, How can we be loyal to our party and vote for somebody who is a member of the other party?" My answer is: That decision was made for you. It was made for you in my home State of California, in the city of Los Angeles, and there I say that the leaders of the Democratic Party, by the platform they adopted, forfeited the right to ask loyalty from true Democrats in this country today. And so you say, "What is the difference then?" As a matter of fact, when I was in Richmond, at a great throng at noon today, I was asked that question just before I spoke. The line was that there was no choice between the two platforms, that some of the orators on the other side were saying it's tweedledum and tweedledee; there's really nothing to choose. So, you might as well stay with your party. Well, my friends, I suggest that you read the platforms. I suggest that you listen to the speeches, and then I suggest that you make up your minds. I don't mean there aren't instances in which you may not like our platform as well as not like the other platform. As I have indicated on my previous visit to this State, I realize that on the issue of civil rights there are many people in this State, in the South, who do not like our provisions, as they do not like the provisions in the Democratic platform as well. I have stated my convictions on that issue. They are well known. I state them again tonight, not for the purpose of indicating that we are here to preach to the people of the South, because I say, having attended school here for 3 years, I recognize that this is not just a southern problem: it's a northern problem and an eastern problem and a western problem, and we've all got to solve it together. But, my friends, I will have only this to say about this issue: I have my convictions, you have yours, but together we must move forward to solve it. Move forward to solve it - why? Well, one great reason is this: We must not continue to have a situation exist where Mr. Khrushchev, a man who has enslaved millions, a man who has slaughtered thousands, is able to come to the United States of America, as he did a couple of days ago, and point the finger at us and say that we are denying rights to our people - and I say that we can and will move together in solving this problem. With your assistance and with men of good will working together, it can be solved. That is my feeling about it, and I know it is yours as well in this part of the country. But here again let's turn then to other issues. Where do the platforms disagree? What is the choice that the people of this part of the country and of all parts of the country have? My friends, if you read what they say, if you read what we say, you will see that it is not their position, not their platform that stands with the great principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, and the people in this part of the country know it. What are the differences? We stand for progress for America. We stand for better schools and better housing, for an improvement in the standards for education. We stand for better jobs for our people. We stand for increased benefits under social security. We stand for a better life for Americans. Our opponents say they stand for the same things. What is the difference then? The difference is, we can produce and they won't - and I will prove that by the record in a moment. The difference also lies in our philosophy. They say that in order to get all these things, these good ends that Americans want, that the way to do it is to turn first to Washington, run up to Washington, and say to the Federal government: "We turn over to you our opportunities and our decision making powers. We want Washington to solve these problems. We want Washington to spend our money." This is the way they say to do it, and we say that's the wrong place to start. We say that when you want progress in America, the place to start is not to start with what Washington does, but to start with what people do and then work up to Washington, with Washington filling what people cannot do. We say that history tells the American people that the way to progress is not through weakening individual responsibility but strengthening it. We say that history tells the American people that the way to progress is not to weaken the States and their responsibility, but to strengthen them. We stand for strengthening the rights of the States and they stand for weakening them, and I submit to you that ours is the position that you support and not theirs on this issue as well. But now, of course, I realize that the listener might well say: "Just a minute, Mr. Nixon. All of this is a lot of good philosophy - States rights, what the Federal government out to do, what the individual ought to do but I'm a person, an individual, concerned about my job, concerned about schools for my children, concerned about health in my old age, concerned about my social security. Who's going to do the best job for me?" And I say we welcome that test, and first we say, "Look at the record." You know, we have a perfect record to compare here. Fifteen years have elapsed since World War II. For 7½ years we had the other philosophy in effect under Mr. Truman and for 7½ years we've had our philosophy under President Eisenhower, and on every test that you make, my friends, we have done a good job and they've only talked a good job for the American people. To all of you listening, I say: Consider your situation; consider your jobs, for example. You will find in the 7 Eisenhower years that your wages have gone up 15 percent, whereas the increase in the real wages in the 7 Truman years was only 2 percent. You will find that we have built more schools in this period than in the previous 20 years. You will find that there have been more hospitals built in this period than in the previous administration, more highways, more progress in every way. And that's what they pay off on. The test of whether government is good for you is not how much is done by Washington. It's how much the whole American people are allowed to do for themselves, and that is what has happened under our leadership. And so on all these issues we welcome the test. We say that in the field of education we are proud that we stand for a program that will build more schools, that will raise the levels of our teachers' salaries, but which rejects the program that they have that would endanger the right of the States to control education and that would, in effect, give to the Federal government the power not only to pay teachers, but to tell them what to teach - and that must never happen in the United States of America. We say that the answer to the problem of health care for our old people is our way and not theirs. Why? Because ours is a program which leaves to the individual the choice, the choice of what he wants in the way of protection. Theirs is the one that compels people to have coverage whether they want it or not, and we say that all Americans of this age should have the right to have insurance who want it, that none of them, however, should be compelled to have it against their will. Ours is the right way. Theirs is the wrong way again, and we believe the American people know this and they prefer ours to theirs. We believe in the field of agriculture that we have a program which means abundance; we have a program that will increase markets; we have a program that will remove surpluses. Theirs is a program of scarcity. Theirs is the one that will reduce acreage. Theirs is one certainly which, when the farmers of America consider it, they will reject it, not to speak of the consumers, whose prices would be raised by their own admission, by the program that they adopt, and here again, I say, test our programs; test our platform; and you will find ours is the one that will bring progress to America and theirs is the one that will bring stagnation to the great growth that this country has experienced. And so in all these areas we welcome the test - the test of the record, the test of our program. There is one other you should submit us to. I know the people have spoken to me and they have said, "Now, Mr. Nixon, you say that you stand for more progress than your opponent does. You stand for more progress in schools and health and education and welfare." They say, "How can you say this when he says he is going to spend more money for each of these programs than you do?" And let me tell you, my friends, that's correct. He is going to spend more money, billions of dollars more for his programs than I believe should be spent under ours; but then I ask you a question: Whose money is he spending? It isn't Jack's money, but your money that he's spending - and that makes a big difference. And I refuse to go around this country trying to buy the people's votes with their own money. I say that if a program can do a better job for less of the people's money so that you can have more to spend, that's what the people want, and that's what we're going to give them, and that's what they're going to vote for on November 8. And, so, in all of these fields I say ours are programs that will produce on the glowing promises that they make, and we are proud of our record; we're proud of our program; we're proud of the support you have given it. Take, for example, a matter very close to the hearts of those in the Carolinas, which produce so much of our textiles. I have met at length with some of your leaders today. I have issued a statement which I ask all of you to study. It is one in which I have very strong feelings. I don't believe that our national trade policy must mean marking certain industries as expendable, and certainly the textile industry of this part of the country or of America is not expendable, and we have a program that will see that it is not expendable. And I submit to you that the program of our opponents, their so-called trade adjustment plan, would be designed to put this industry, like cotton textiles, on a dole, or it would adjust it out of the textile business, and we don't intend to do that. But now may I turn finally to another issue. We have been talking about jobs and schools and housing and textiles, all of these things in which we're vitally interested. I now want to talk to you about something even more important, and that's being around to enjoy the good life we're going to produce by these programs. My friends, the major test to which you must put the two candidates for the Presidency, the major test, is in the field of foreign affairs. Which of the candidates can best keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? And I say to you that on that issue we are proud of our record. Oh, it's been criticized, but all the criticism in the world cannot obscure the fact that the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for getting this nation out of one war, keeping us out of others, and bringing peace without surrender today. And I submit to you today that we will keep America strong militarily so that we will always be able to guard the peace, that we will keep this Nation strong economically so that we will always be ahead in the economic race that we will keep the moral and spiritual fiber of America strong, because that is the most decisive, the most important of all, and I pledge to you that in the field of diplomacy we will see to it that America is always firm, but never belligerent, always willing to negotiate and go the extra mile, but always standing on principle for our friends and for ourselves whenever that principle is threatened by the enemies of freedom or peace throughout the world. These things we will stand for. But I know some of you may have noted the criticism that Senator Kennedy made of our policies a couple of days ago. He said he was tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev was doing; he was tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro was doing. He said he wanted to read in the paper some day what the President of the United States was doing. Well, my friends, if he would quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, I say: No; he isn't pounding the table. He isn't making a fool of himself. He isn't apologizing or expressing regrets for defending this country against surprise attack either. And, so, tonight I challenge my opponent. I say for him to tell the people of this country wherein he disagrees with his platform, if he does, as some have implied. I suggest that he perhaps indicate to the country whether he goes further than he did in our debate, when he apparently had forgotten the platform pledge about debt reduction. I think he ought to really write that one in. That was one of the few good things in that platform, incidentally. But, above all, I say to this great audience tonight: Nothing could have been more inspirational to Pat and to me than to come into this State, in which I spent three of the most instructive and pleasant years of my life, to receive such a wonderful welcome, and I can only say that we trust in the months ahead we can be worthy of your trust, that we can keep the ideals of America high in this campaign, and with your support in this election we will always see that American ideals stand before the world - faith in God, belief in the dignity of all men; the right of all nations to be independent; the right of all peoples to be free. We will always remember that this is what makes America strong, and these things, with your help, we will carry to all the world. Thank you.
 There are many things that I would like to talk about today, many things that are close to our hearts as Americans, as Virginians, and in discussing the issues it seems to me that the theme that I might well follow has been already indicated by the two men who have appeared before I got up to speak. They have been talking about platforms. They have been talking about the positions taken by the candidates on the great issues confronting this Nation, and I know of no better theme to talk on today than our platforms, the Democratic platform or, I should prefer to call it, the Los Angeles platform, because certainly it's a far cry from a true Democratic platform if you read what it had to say, and our platform adopted at Chicago. In talking about that platform and in discussing the provisions of both of them today, I think it is well for me to state at the outset a conviction that I deeply feel with regard to what people ought to do, with regard to the standards you should follow in selecting a President of the United States. I noted, for example, that Senator Kennedy, in a speech yesterday, emphasized the fact that it was the party that mattered. Vote for your party. My friend, I say to everybody here, whether you're Republican or Democrat, that when we elect a President of the United States it's the country that matters. Vote for America, and America comes before any party. And I say to my Republican friends: It isn't enough reason to vote for me simply because I wear the same label. I say to my Republican friends and my Democratic friends as well: It isn't enough reason to vote for any man because he wears the label that you wear. It has been the tradition of Americans that when we elect the President of the United States we go beyond the label. We look behind it. We see what the man stands for. We see what kind of leadership America needs. If you look over our history, you will find that some of our great Presidents, including the great Virginians who have been President, have been Democrats. You will also find that some of our great Presidents have been Republicans, and that is as it should be because in periods in the world's history, America cannot afford to make a choice solely on the basis of a partisan label. We must find the best man, whether he is a Democrat or Republican, to be President, and it's on that basis that I ask you to consider what I have to say today to this great throng of Virginians. Now, I'm well aware of the fact that, speaking here in Virginia to this great crowd, I am speaking to a group that contains many, many members of the Democratic Party. I realize that many of those listening to me on television and radio are Democrats, not members of my own party, and I know that to many of you there is a problem, and that is the problem of party loyalty. I know that there are those who say: "You must be loyal to your party." And I want to answer that today. I want to answer it in words that I know you will understand. I say that those who wrote the platform at Los Angeles forfeited the right to ask true Democrats to vote for their party in this election this year. Who were they? Mr. Bowles, Mr. Galbraith, Mr. Schlesinger. I say that Thomas Jefferson would turn over m his grave if he thought those men were representing the positions of Thomas Jefferson today. In other words, the party of Schlesinger, Galbraith, and Bowles is not the party of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, and that is the issue that Virginians understand and that people throughout this country, Democrat and Republican, understand in this campaign And, so, we now develop this point. We develop it because I realize, as those who preceded me on this platform have already indicated, that the charge has been made that there is no difference between the platforms, that it is tweedledum and tweedledee, that there is really nothing to loose. Well, now, first, let's get one thing straight: I stand for my platform. I talk the same north, east, west, and south, and I want everybody to understand that. Second, I note that my opponents indicated at their convention in Los Angeles that they stood for their platform. I have also noted stories to the effect put out by some leaders in some parts of the country that our opponents really don't mean it' that there are some parts of their platform that they really are against, and so I call upon our opponents today to state whether they are for their platform or not, and if they are not for it I think the people of Virginia, the people of America are entitled to know where they depart from their platform in Los Angeles. But, considering them to be honorable men, considering them to be men, as I believe them to be, who meant what they said when they were for their platform, this is what we have to deal with, and so we have their platform; we have ours. What choice do the people of Virginia have? What choice do the people of America have? Now, let's begin by an observation that all of you will know and understand. There are parts of our platform that you don't like, just as there are parts of the Democratic platform that you don't like. I know that there are many people in this great audience who do not approve of our platform in the field of civil rights. I know this. I know that all of you know my deepest convictions on this subject. I know also that you are aware of the fact that I have had the opportunity to study this subject in detail. I know it is a difficult problem. I attended school in the South for 3 years. I know that it isn't going to be solved by demagoguery. I know that isn't just a southern problem. I know that it's a northern problem and a western problem and an eastern problem and that all of us have got to deal with this problem before we talk about it in any part or section of the country. But all I can say is this: Whatever our differences are, my friends, we are going to work together to solve it. We will find a way to solve it, and I'll tell you one great reason we've got to find a way to solve it. We cannot have the spectacle of Mr. Khrushchev, a man who has enslaved millions, a man who has slaughtered thousands, coming to the United States and pointing the finger at the United States of America in this field of human rights. I say: That all Americans move forward to solve this problem. Whatever our disagreements are, we will find a way. That is my conviction, and I state it here as I state it throughout the country, and I know you will appreciate my doing so in this manner. Let's look further. The platforms are not different, they say. All right, where are they the same again? They are the same perhaps in the goals we seek, in the very broad sense. By the broad sense, I mean that, whatever we are, Democrats or Republicans, we all want progress in this country. We all want a better life, better schools and housing and health and wages. All these things we want. The question is: How do we get progress? Do we get it through one means or another? And here is where we are as far apart as the poles. Here is where our platform is built on, is based on, I submit to you, the great principles of Jefferson and Wilson and their's denies them right up and down the line. Let me give you some examples. We say the way to progress in America is not through taking every subject and turning it over to the Federal Government and having an all-powerful Federal Government make the decisions. We say that the way to progress is not by weakening the States, by weakening individuals. We say the way to progress is to strengthen individual enterprise, to strengthen the States, and to have the Federal Government do only those things that the States and the individuals cannot do. This we say.  And, so, you have a complete contrast. If you want the Federal Government to step in, if you want a massive Federal program to come in to weaken the States, to blunt individual enterprise, you have a choice. Don't vote for us, because you have a choice on the other side. But if you want to strengthen the real fiber of this country - and that is the creative energy of a hundred and eighty million Americans - if you want to stimulate them, if you want to give them opportunity, then we are the ones to support, because that's what we stand for - and we're proud to stand on these principles.  How else do we differ? Well, they would spend more money than we would. Approximately $10 billion a year more would be spent by them in what they indicate would create progress for America than we would spend.  Now, you know, somebody was talking to me the other day and they said, "Now, Mr. Nixon, how in the world can you possibly make a case that you're more for progress, for schools and housing, and health and all these other things, good jobs for Americans, when they're going to spend $10 billion more than you are to get these things?"  My answer is a very simple one: It isn't Jack's money they're going to spend, but yours, to carry out these promises they have been making around the country. Putting it bluntly, the question, you see, is not how much the Federal Government spends; it's what it does. The question is whether the programs adopted by this Federal Government bring the progress of all the various facets of our society or whether they have a tendency to have everything done in Washington and reduce what is done at the local level, but particularly reduce what is done at the individual level.  So, I submit to you today that our program, yes, is one that will cost billions of dollars less than theirs; but if we can do more, create more in the way of progress, than they can, and do it for less of your money, I say we're entitled to the votes of Virginians and Democrats and Republicans throughout this country - and we present it to you on that basis today and throughout this campaign as well.  Let me spell it out a bit further. Let's get specific. How do we differ, for example, in our approach to the problem of aid to our schools? We both are for programs that will aid our schools, a program of primary education and a program of secondary and higher education. Theirs would cost more, but not only in dollars; it would cost more in something far more significant than dollars, because they say that they will have a program that will aid not only the construction of schools, but that will also directly subsidize teachers' salaries.  Now, let me point out this: We all believe teachers need to be paid more. We all want that, but we stand for a program limited only to school construction, which will release funds for teachers' salaries, and we say ours is the more effective way to provide this aid than theirs. Why? Because I say to you, my friends, that the last thing we want in this country is to give to Federal bureaucrats the power to pay our teachers and then the right to tell them what to teach - and this we cannot have. Thomas Jefferson has often made the point that the greatest guarantee of freedom is to diffuse power and that we must not have concentration of power in an all-powerful Federal Government, and it is because we believe that any kind of program that would put immense power in the Federal Government over our school system is something that Americans should reject, not because of the amount of money that is being spent, but because this kind of power is something which, in the wrong hands, would be something that all Americans would be against. Let me give you one other example in the program of medical care for the aged. We all want better health care for our older citizens. We believe they need protection so, what do our opponents have? Oh, they have a program that will cost more, but it is a program that, in addition to that, would compel people who didn't want this particular kind of coverage to have it. What is our answer? We say that any program in this field, or, for that matter, any other, should be one that would give to every one of our citizens who wants health insurance an opportunity to get it, that would encourage those who need it to get it, but that would not compel any American against his will to have health insurance, and thereby we believe our program is the one that Americans will support. So, I say: Measure our platforms. In every instance you will find theirs cost more in money, and they also cost more in something that is much more precious than money - the potential freedoms of this country. Ours will produce the progress. Theirs will talk about it. You say, "How do you know?" Well, my answer is, my friends, "Look at the Eisenhower 7½ years and compare them with the Truman 7½ years, and whether it's in building schools or hospitals or increasing wages, real wages for our citizens, we have just done better than they have. They talk a good game, but we do a good game - and that's what we're going to continue to do for the people of the United States. And so, on these great issues I say: If you consider the true philosophy of Thomas Jefferson, of Woodrow Wilson, if you match that philosophy against the various provisions of our platform and what we stand for, I say that Democrats, by the millions this year, as they did in 1952 and 1956, will be voting for us, not because they are deserting their party, but because their party deserted them and its great principles at its convention in Los Angeles earlier this year. Now, could I turn to one other index you must use in judging the candidates for the Presidency. These issues that I have discussed are vitally important. The one I am about to discuss is far more important than all the rest put together, because we can have the best jobs and the best social security; we can have the finest housing that we can imagine, and, you know, it isn't going to make any difference if we aren't around to enjoy them. So, the most important test you must put Senator Kennedy and me and our colleagues to in this campaign is this: Which of the candidates can best provide the leadership that will keep peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great issue which you must judge the candidates by in this campaign. Now, obviously, I'm a bit prejudiced on this issue, but I want to submit to you why I believe we offer the leadership that America needs. First, on the record: Oh, there have been lots of things said about this record, as Walter Robertson has already implied. It's been criticized. It hasn't been perfect. But, my friends, all the political criticism in the world cannot obscure the truth, and it's this: that the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight D. Eisenhower because, under his leadership, we got this Nation out of one war; we've kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and this is something Americans have wanted. What about the arguments, however, that we have lost our prestige, that America has been standing still, that we find that all around the world that the American President has lost the initiative? I think they were all summed up pretty well the other day. I don't know whether you noted it or not, but Mr. Kennedy speaking in upper New York made a rather startling statement, I thought. He said: "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing." He said, "I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Well, my friends, if he would only quit talking and start reading, he would read what President Eisenhower is doing. Oh, yes, he isn't doing what Khrushchev and Castro are doing, but we can thank God we've got a President who maintains his dignity and maintains the dignity of this country. Yes, it's true President Eisenhower isn't trying to muscle into the Congo and take Over this newly independent country. We can be proud that we are working through the United Nations to maintain the freedom of these people rather than to take it away. It's true that President Eisenhower isn't making a fool of himself on the floor of the U.N. It's true that he is advocating a program for disarmament, for the use of outer space, a program in addition, for the use of our surpluses through the United Nations. All of these are honest, decent proposals, which the whole world applauds. You say, "But what about our prestige, Mr. Nixon? How about the fact that President Eisenhower couldn't go to Japan? And, my answer is: Why do we blame President Eisenhower for what the Communists do in Japan? Let's have in mind the fact that today our relations with Japan are the best that they have been for many, many years, and, so, I say to you, as we look at the situation, look at it all - oh, yes, there are things that can be criticized in the conduct of our foreign policy. The Communists are going to continue to move. They're going to continue to stir up trouble, but the question is not whether we have trouble. It's how you handle it. It's whether you avoid war, on the one side or surrender on the other, and President Eisenhower has been able to do this, and we will continue to do this if we get the opportunity that the American people can give us in this election. Just one point about prestige: Walter Robertson noted the votes that have taken place since Cabot Lodge has represented us at the United Nations, and I can only say that I don't know of any man who has had more experience or who could have done a better job standing for the cause of peace and freedom than he did as our American Ambassador to the United Nations, and he's going to work with me, as a partner, in strengthening the instruments of peace, the United Nations, the Organization of American States, in dealing with these problems; but, going further about prestige, if our prestige, if our prestige was low it would show up there first of all. We had a vote the other day in the United Nations. You remember it? The Russians were on one side on the Congo; we were on the other. You know what the vote was? Seventy to nothing. Well, that's a pretty good indication the United States is doing very well, and I think we ought to point up our strength as well as our weaknesses. But what about the future? As far as the future is concerned, my friends, and this I want to make absolutely clear: America can never stand still. We can never be satisfied. We must move forward in all areas. I'll tell you why. We're dealing with the most ruthless, fanatical men that ever lived in human history. I've seen them. I know them. Mr. Khrushchev stood with me in Moscow, and he said, "Mr. Nixon, you're ahead of us now, economically, but," he said, "we're going to catch you." He said, "We're moving faster than you are, and when we catch you, we're going to pass you by and I'm going to wave and then say, 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or you will fall hopelessly behind.'" He meant it. He's wrong. He isn't going to catch us in 7 years or 70 years, provided we stay true to the great principles that have made America what it is today. But, my friends, this means moving forward on all fronts. It means keeping America what she is today - the strongest nation in the world - and I pledge to you that we will do that. We will do it and we will ask the American people to pay whatever is necessary to maintain that level of military strength. It means, in addition, seeing that this economy of ours continues to grow. It means removing the blocks to growth, encouraging education, all the other things which will stimulate growth. Why? Because, although we're well ahead now, we must move ahead in order to stay ahead: It means, in addition to that, being firm at the diplomatic table, firm without being belligerent, and this is a difficult line to follow, difficult because you're dealing with men who try to insult you, men who try to get your goat, men who try to get you to lose your temper, and I know from experience it's hard to hold it when you're dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev, but the next President has to do that. He must always remember that he cannot have the luxury of losing his temper because you might heat up the international atmosphere to the point where a nuclear explosion would be set off. But while you avoid that on the one side, you must also avoid at all costs any concession on principle. We must avoid making a concession without getting one in return. We must avoid, for example, the very thing that Senator Kennedy suggested after the Paris Conference - a well-intentioned suggestion, but one that was naive, one that did not take into account the kind of men we're dealing with. He said, "Why didn't President Eisenhower try to save the summit conference, or he could have tried to save it by regretting the U-2 flights?" My friends, it wouldn't have helped to begin with, because Mr. Khrushchev didn't break up the conference for that reason, but there's another reason: When the President of the United States is doing something that is right, as distinguished from something that is wrong, something that is in the defense of this country, whether he's a Democrat or a Republican, he can never consider regretting or apologizing to Khrushchev or anybody else for it - and I can assure you that is what we are going to do. One other point I would make: In addition to the military strength, the economic strength, the diplomatic power and firmness, we need another kind of strength that is particularly appropriate to refer to in this historic place, and that is the strength of our ideals. I know these days it's rather the custom to sneer about debating with the Communists. It's the custom to sneer about ideals. They say, "All that counts is power. Make America powerful and we don't need to worry about ideals." My friends, we need the power. We need it because we are confronted with men who respect power, but, remember, ideals are what are going to decide this struggle. Ideals have always been underestimated. When Thomas Jefferson lived, America was a weak country militarily, a weak country economically, but one of the strongest nations in the world. Why? Because she stood for something. Ideals that were bigger than America, ideals that Jefferson and his colleagues wrote into our Declaration of Independence and into our Constitution - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of men; our belief in the right of all men to be free; our belief in the right of nations to be independent. These ideals caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. They live today. They live in our hearts. They live abroad. And I say to you today: I, as a candidate for the Presidency, would like to be able to tell you: Elect me President and I will keep these ideals strong, but that must come from you. A President can only help, because these ideals - love of country, appreciation of what we stand for - this comes from the homes, from the churches, from the schools of America - and I say to all of you: Regardless of how you vote in this election campaign, strengthen the idealism of America. Let us stand for more than military might, more than economic strength. We are the richest nation. We are the strongest nation. But the reason we're going to win in this struggle is because we're on the right side, and all that I can say, as I conclude, is that I trust that if you give us your confidence this November 8, that my colleague and I will be able to be worthy of the ideals that have made America great. Thank you.
Mrs. NIXON. Madam Chairman and friends, it certainly is a wonderful honor for me to be here today and hear all these women tell me what they are going to do this week. When Clare Williams first told me about the enthusiastic reception to her idea of "Pat Nixon Week," I felt very humble and proud. Of course, I realize that all of us are working for a cause which is bigger than ourselves. We are devoted to our country. Along with all the other women, I will be out working from now until the last vote is counted because I feel it is so important to the Campaign to get the best leadership, experienced leadership, and leadership with a program, and I know that you share that same feeling. I do want to close by saying that Dick joins me in appreciation of all of you wonderful volunteers who are doing such a magnificent job in this campaign. The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to be the only man to speak on this women's program. I am in somewhat of a predicament I must admit. The predicament is that whenever I talk about Pat, she always gives it to me afterward and says: "You shouldn't have said those things." And consequently, I'm going to violate her rule and admonition and say a word about her if I might on this occasion. I will begin with one of my favorite stories, which came out of the campaign in Nebraska. Some of you have heard it, but it is worth repeating. A farmer came through the receiving line and said he had driven 200 miles to the meeting. As he shook hands with Pat and me, he turned to me and said, "Young fellow," he said, "my wife is going to vote for you, but I'm going to vote for Pat." Now, if you can just multiply that by several million, we have it made as you can well see. Certainly one of the most inspiring things about this campaign is to have this group of * * * [roar of planes cut off a few words here] Leading women in the United States pay their tribute to Pat and also to indicate their support of our campaign. This is a hard campaign. There are still 5 weeks to go, but we intend to win it and when the campaign is won, I am sure that a maximum part of the credit will go to the women on this stage, including Pat Nixon. I have been trying to think of what I could say about Pat that hasn't already been said. What occurred to me was, as Bertha Adkins agreed in those "Ten Reasons to Vote for the Vice President," was to transpose those to Pat. For example, she pointed out that I worked my way through school. Well, I did work my way through school, but my parents were able to help me to an extent. My mother used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning, I remember, and bake pies and sell them in our store, and the savings from that came into my college and law school education. Pat, on the other hand, worked her way through school, too, but she did it in a far more difficult situation. Her mother died when she was 13 and she had to take care of the whole family at that point because she was the only girl in the family at home. Her father died when she was 17 and from the time she finished high school, Pat earned every cent to send her through college where she graduated with honors from Southern California. As you well see, she ought to be running for President rather than I. [Plane roars overhead again] * * * and then Bertha Adkins referred very kindly to my experience in traveling abroad and I have been to 55 countries, but with the exception of 1, Austria, Pat has been to all of them, too. People think of the speeches I have made and the meetings I have had and the effect of them, but they are really nothing compared to what she did. While I would be meeting all the dignitaries, as was my responsibility, and discussing matters of state, Pat was out visiting literally hundreds and hundreds of hospitals and children's homes. She was bringing to the people abroad the heart of America, and I can tell you that while many people underestimate what they call so-called good will - they sneer at it, they say you can't build a policy on it - let me say this, that you can certainly negotiate much more effectively when there is a feeling in the hearts of people of good will for the United States than when there is none. And Pat Nixon has done more for that than anybody that I know in these last few years. If I could personalize it a bit. When we were in Panama, a country where we need good will at the present time, Pat was the first individual who had gone through the leper colony and greeted the lepers there, also to the extent of shaking hands with them. In countries abroad, as for example in Korea, where it was very cold at that time. I remember that she went through the hospitals where the Korean soldiers were. I saw newspaper reports from Korea that were translated afterward. She made an impact on the Korean people for good that I am sure was greater than anything I could have said. For what I am really trying to bring home to you with regard to her is not that in itself such visits as this settle the affairs of state. It is not that we do not have problems in the world, but it is that the women of America have done and will continue to do a great deal in bringing to all the people of the world our true feelings toward them, because the women of America are for peace and they want leadership that will bring peace. The women have a feeling in their hearts for all the unfortunates not only in this country but in other countries and the very fact that they get this across; that they let the people of these countries know that we help them, not just because we are fighting communism, but because we would be concerned about misery and disease, be concerned about want even if there were no communism - because the women can convey that and do convey it better than the men - this, believe me, helps us abroad and Pat, certainly, I say with pardonable pride, has done that for all the women of America, has helped to convey that true picture better than we men have been able to convey it. And so in the years ahead, if I might just close with this, I can only say that I think we have been fortunate to have in the past 8 years one of the most gracious First Ladies that the world has ever seen, in Mamie Eisenhower. Now, it would be presumptuous for me to say anything about who ought to be the next President. It would be presumptuous for me to say anything about myself. I have often thought this about my running mate. I certainly think he's got it all over his opponent, but I can say something in regard to Pat, and this has nothing to do with regard to her opponent, because the ladies are not running against each other. I will say this, whatever people may think of me, Pat would make a wonderful First Lady. Thank you.
Now, in these brief stops that we make, and they have to be brief because we can't block traffic for too long a period, we, of course, can't discuss all of the matters that everybody is interested in. So, it is always the problem of whoever is the candidate to select those things that really most people are concerned about, and I would like to talk to you today on just three or four points that I think all of you ought to have in mind, as you consider the candidates, and as you work for the candidates between now and November the 8th. The first point is this: I think it's vitally important that when we elect a President of the United States that we have in mind that it isn't enough simply to vote a party label. It would be very easy for me to say to simply a Republican group: Vote Republican because I'm a Republican. But when we elect a President of the United States particularly in these times, we have got to remember that whoever is President is going to have to lead America. He's going to have to see that we have progress. he's going to have to see that we, in addition to that, lead the free world. And the decisions he makes will determine perhaps the course of freedom. It may determine whether we have war or peace in these critical years ahead. I think all of you will agree, then, that the test has got to be different than simply a party label. Senator Kennedy said a couple of days ago in Minneapolis that the important thing was to vote for the party, his party, of course. I say to you today that the important thing is not the party, but the country, and I ask you to vote for whatever is best for America. So, judge the candidates on the basis not of the labels they wear, but what's behind them. What experience do they have? What do they stand for? What kind of leadership will they give? And it's to that point I would like to talk now. You know, it's the custom when presidential candidates travel through a country, a custom which is often cartooned about and editorialized about and written about a great deal, to see who can outpromise the other. One fellow comes in and says, "I promise you this," and the next one comes in and says "I raise you," and the third one comes in and says "I call you." But whatever the case may be, we're not talking now about a poker game. We're talking about what's best for the country. I don't tell this audience here that I will outpromise my opponent, and I'll tell you why: When I promise you this or that or the other thing, I've got to remember something that you are also aware of. Those promises have to be paid for, and who pays for them? Well, it isn't my money, and it isn't Jack's money, but it's yours: and therefore, I say that not one dollar should be spent that doesn't need to be spent in Washington, and every dollar should be spent that needs to be spent. But I say to come before a group of Americans and to talk loosely and glibly about what we're going to do about this and that and the other thing without regard to whether it raises your taxes, whether it raises your prices, whether it raises your food costs, I say this is something I cannot and will not do. It would be much easier to do it the other way, but, my friends, again what is at stake here is the future of America, and we need to be sure that this country progresses soundly, that this country progresses in the way that it has always progressed, and you know how that has been? Not by the fact that the Federal Government takes over every responsibility, weakening the States, weakening the individuals. We've always had the greatest progress in this country when the Federal Government and the other governments adopted policies that stimulated the incentives and the creative energies of 180 million free Americans - and that's what we stand for today. And, so I want to make clear where we do stand. I favor programs, programs that are constructive, programs that will work, programs that will produce progress; more schools, a breakthrough in science, a breakthrough in medical care and medical research, progress in terms of better jobs for the American people, raising the minimum standards as far as our minimum wage, and our unemployment coverage is concerned. All of these things I stand for, but I want to make one thing clear: As far as the cost of my programs are concerned, they are billions less than what my opponent's would cost. And let me point out one other thing - one other thing: Some people say, "Well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon, if his programs cost more than yours do, doesn't that prove that they're better?" And my answer is: No. Remember, it's your money, and, after all, if we can do what needs to be done, what will produce the progress, what will defend this country with a program which is effective, which costs less, that's what you want, because every time we save a dollar in Washington on the Federal budget, it means another dollar for the people of America to meet the family budget. And that brings me to a third point. I grew up in a grocery store. I know something about the prices that housewives worry about and think about as they go in. I remember in the years that I was growing up I could tell those shoppers among the housewives that were going to be able to meet the family budget, have enough left over at the end of the month to buy the shoes and the other things that meant just getting along in those periods of the thirties and I remember women, for example, coming in buying stew meat instead of the pot roast that looked a lot better, hamburger rather than the steak that was a little higher, no strawberries out of season, for example, all these things. It didn't seem like much, for example, but when it was added up at the end it was terribly important, and every woman here knows how important that is. Now, I want to talk about something I am going to elaborate on tonight. And this gets back to promises. You have heard about the farm program, and I suppose the audience here would say, "Why in the world does anybody mention the farm program in New Jersey? We haven't seen a cow except on a billboard. Why do we worry about the farm program?" I'll tell you why. Because the farm program that is adopted by this next administration can affect the food prices of everything you buy in the stores. I have a farm program. It's one that is designed to (1) keep farm income up and to see that our farmers get a better break, as they deserve it, a fair share of America's increasing prosperity, but it's a program based on plenty rather than scarcity. It's one that will work rather than one that won't, and my opponent has a program. It is a program which will put the American farmers, from their standpoint, at the mercy of the Government bureaucrats, which will tell them what they can grow, how much and what they can sell it for. Now, what's all this got to do with you? It will raise food prices 25 percent - I mean 25 percent - milk, for example, bread, everything up and down the line. And so, I say: Consider this. Consider if you think that kind of promising is what the American people are prepared to pay for. I don't think they are, because, what's more, that kind of program won't help the farmer in the long run. It will hurt him, and it won't certainly help the consumer. It will hurt you. And I say what America needs today and what they stand for is a President who does not go around the country saying "I'm 100 percent for this group or that group, and I'll make this promise and that promise and that promise. We've got to have somebody in the White House who remembers that he can belong not to any one group in this country. He's got to belong to all the American people and stand for them. Now, of course, you might say, "Well, now, just a moment. How about this, though?" We really want better schools and housing and jobs. Who's going to produce them? And my answer is: You look at the record. Compare our record with the Truman administration which preceded it, and in every instance we built more schools, we built more hospitals, we found real income going up, we found prices held down, better in this administration than in the previous one - and it's that kind of performance I'm talking about, not the kind of promises you hear about. Now, the last point I want to make is the most important of all: What could be more important than keeping the family budget? What could be more important than a good job? What could be more important than better schools? Being around to enjoy them. And that means that the most important test to which you must put both Senator Kennedy and myself is this: Which of the two candidates, by experience, by judgment, by background, by program, can provide the leadership that will keep the peace for America and the world without surrender, and this is what we stand for and what we believe we can do. I don't tell you it's an easy thing, because it isn't. It's going to be hard. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know that he's a man you cannot assume will react like the leaders of the free world, Mr. Nehru, Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Eisenhower, and Mr. Macmillan. I know this man is ruthless, fanatical. He is determined to conquer the world. He will use any means. He will break all the rules, and we need somebody to deal with him who knows what kind of a fellow that he is and who will be firm, give him no concessions, and firm without being belligerent - and that's what I'm going to be doing. Why is this necessary? I would like to tell you that, for example, as Senator Kennedy suggested, that if President Eisenhower, after the Paris conference, had gone to Mr. Khrushchev and said, "Look, Mr. Khrushchev, I regret that this U-2 flight took place," that maybe that would have saved the conference, because that might have been the reaction of a free world leader. He would say, "what a decent thing for President Eisenhower to do. He regretted this thing happened just before this conference. Therefore, I'm going to go forward with it." But, my friends, that would have been the wrong thing to do with Mr. Khrushchev. Why? He would have had nothing but contempt for the President because whenever you make a concession to a Communist without getting one in return, it doesn't satisfy him. It only whets his appetite, and I can say we can be thankful that we've had a President who has stood up on this matter, that has stood up and has refused to apologize or express regrets. What can we do? We can keep this country strong, and we must. We must never have the American President be in a position where Khrushchev or anybody else can say: "I'm stronger than you are," and I pledge to you that we will do this, and I pledge to you that whatever the American people will need to do will be asked to do to maintain this strength. We'll keep the economy of this country strong and sound and productive and free. We will have our diplomacy firm, but without belligerence. We will strengthen the instruments of peace, strengthen them by strengthening the United Nations and the Organization of American States, always going the extra mile to attempt to work out these differences, but remembering that there isn't any easy way, that, we've got to expect rough seas, and the question is not whether you have trouble in dealing with the Communists. They're going to make trouble. The question is how you react to them, how you handle them, whether you lose your head, whether you're rash or immature or whether you have the judgment and the toughness to be able to sail the rough seas as well as the smooth ones. And then the final point that I make and then I am through, because this involves you. People often say to me, "Mr. Nixon, what can I do? What can I do in this cause of peace and freedom?" And I'll tell you what you can do. You can help strengthen the hand of the United States and the President of the United States in the most important field of all. You know what it is? It isn't our military strength - that's important - and it isn't our economic productivity - that's important - but it's the moral and spiritual strength of this country, its ideals. Let me tell you why it's important in a nutshell. When I was in Poland with Pat a year ago, we arrived on a Sunday afternoon. Now, get the picture. No indication as to when we would arrive. No indication as to where we were going to drive, as there was today, and yet a quarter of a million people on the streets, cheering, shouting, throwing flowers into our car. The car was stopped at least eight times in the heart of Warsaw and the people surged around, and I looked into their faces. Some of them were laughing and smiling. Half of them, grown men and women, were crying, with tears running down their cheeks, behind the Iron Curtain. Why? Not because we were famous, because we weren't, not to them. Not because America was strong militarily and economically, because Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before bragging of that kind of strength. They hadn't done this for him. No, because America stood for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. What are they? Oh, they sound like nothing, I know, but the materialists and the militarists have always underestimated the power of ideals, ideals like - what? Our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of men; our belief that all men, regardless of their background, have a right to have equality of opportunity for education and employment. Our belief, too, ill the right of all nations to be independent, of people to be free. These things we believe. These things America came into the world to live for, to preserve, and not just to keep for ourselves, but to extend them to all mankind. And this is what you can help us do. This is what you can help us do. I say you can help us do, because this kind of strength, my friends, can't just come from a President. He can talk about it. He can believe it, as I believe it, but it must come from the churches, from the schools, from the homes of America, and these young people here, I say: Make them proud of their country. Make them aware of what this country stands for - not just a rich country; not just a strong country, but a country that will always live and that will win. Why? Because we believe in the right things. Oh, they call it patriotism. You can call it flag waving. Well, if it's patriotism and flag waving, that's what we need. We need dedication in this country to the principles that have made America great. And, so, with that I thank you for giving me a bit of your time on this delightful afternoon, and I say to you: As we go into this campaign, again, remember: The test is not what the party label is. The test is, what leadership does America need? And if you feel that I and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, can provide the leadership that America needs, I can only say this: We know the men with whom we have to deal. We believe in this country's ideals. We have faith in them, and we will never let you down. Thank you very much.
I was rather struck by a comment Senator Kennedy made the other day. I suppose you read it, a major foreign policy speech, in upper New York, where he said "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to read in the papers what our President is doing." Well, my friends, if he would quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing. And all that I can say: We can be thankful that our President isn't making a fool of himself as Castro and Khrushchev have at the United Nations. We can be thankful that our President is putting out real disarmament proposals rather than phony ones, that he's standing for the peace of the world, rather than to stir up trouble in the world, that instead of muscling into the Congo to try to take it over, he's standing with the United Nations. I say that it's time, with all this criticism of the President and his policies, that, in pointing out, as we should, the things that are wrong, that we recognize the things that are right about America as well. And there are plenty of things right about this country. So, I submit to you: We will work for peace, without surrender. We will be firm, but nonbelligerent. We will keep this country strong. But, above all, we will stand for the ideals that will be decisive in this struggle. What are they? Oh, they don't sound like much when you think of missiles and atomic bombs and productivity of factories and growth rates, but 185 years ago the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence didn't sound like much, because it was a tiny little country, weak militarily, weak economically, but the words, the ideals in those documents, caught the imagination of the world, and they still hold that imagination of the world, and the most important lesson I leave with you is this: Keep the moral and spiritual fiber of this country strong. See that our young people know what it means to be an American. See that they have faith in God, belief in the dignity of men, belief in the rights of all men to be free, regardless of their background. Let us do everything that we can to correct the injustices in this country so that a man like Khrushchev, who has enslaved millions and slaughtered thousands will no longer be able to come to our own country and point the finger to the United States and say, "You're denying rights to people." This is what we must do. These are things which must come from you. A leader, a President, can help, but in the churches, in the schools, in the homes of America we make America's ideals strong. And, so, I say to you, as I close: Keep ideals strong for America, and if they are, the next President of this country will be able to lead this Nation as is its destiny - to peace without surrender - but, more than that, he will be able to lead this Nation to victory without war - and that means freedom not only for America, for the free world, but for men throughout the world.
What I want to say to you however today is this. Very simply, I want to say to this audience that when you elect, as you will, the next President of the United States, you should apply only one test - not what label he wears, not what promises he makes, not what he may say in speeches or anything of that sort, but you must apply your own conviction as to who can give the leadership that America needs in this particular period in our history. Now, why do I mention that? I say that when we elect a President of this country we must think of the country first, and this is particularly true now as we see the great developments in the world and as we note the requirements that America has in the world, and I want to say to everybody here that America needs to select between the two candidates for the Presidency and the two candidates for the Vice Presidency not the one who may be the best from the party standpoint, but the one who's best for America, and I think all of us agree that's what America needs - nothing but the best. Now, I want to say a word about Jackie Robinson, too. He has been very kind to introduce me as he has. I happen to come, of course, as you know, from California, as did both of us, incidentally, many years ago, but he later than I. I have known him for many years. I have appreciated his support very deeply because I know that it is support that comes from his convictions and from the heart, and I only want to say this, after hearing him speak as he has about me and about my running mate. It is a privilege to have on our team this man who has contributed so much not only to baseball and football in America - and I know him more as a football star when I saw him play for UCLA against Oregon and other schools, and Southern California - but who also has contributed so much, particularly since he left sports, in the field of making this a better country, a truer country. I certainly want to join you in paying tribute to one of the fine Americans of our time, an honest man who is never afraid to express his convictions. And so, Jackie, I couldn't have appreciated more the words you have had to say today. Incidentally, the Dodgers, I know, had Jackie for some years. Then, of course, they went out to Los Angeles and by that time Jackie was no longer playing. But with the World Series starting tomorrow, I was saying to Jackie a little earlier that I was sure that the Pirates or the Yankees could use him playing either at second base or third base, and Jackie said, "But I'm a little heavier than I used to be," but certainly as a pinch hitter, I think he'll do any time. What do you think? Incidentally, I noted a few boos. I can say that anybody who doesn't appreciate Jackie Robinson doesn't belong in this crowd right here today. Thank you. Now, noting the Kennedy signs here, I want to say I'm glad to see they are here, because we want some people to convert. So we're glad to have you here. Now, here today, you have heard some talk about civil rights. You know what you expect me to say. I know. "Well, this fellow Nixon is going to get up and say, 'I'm the fellow that is going to promise you the things in civil rights that you want. I'm the fellow who is going to produce and promise the things in housing and education and so forth that you want,'" and then just expect you to take it on that. I want to tell you today, my friends, I don't submit what I have to say on the basis of promises. I submit it on a record, a record that goes back a long time. I'm proud of the fact, for example, that in the last 7½ years in this administration we have produced more progress than was even talked about in the 20 years before. And I say, it's time to quit having so much talking about this and more producing, and that's what we're prepared to do. I also was glad to note Jackie's reference to the fact that on this particular issue, I have talked about it in every State that I have visited, and I'll tell you why: Because it's a problem in every State. Because it isn't right for a candidate for the Presidency or the Vice Presidency to talk one way in the North and another way in the South - and I talk the same throughout America. Another thing that I'm proud of is that I've talked and I've voted the same way as my running mate has. In the case of our opponents they talk out of both corners of their mouths because they don't agree on this issue. I'm glad we do agree, and I know you appreciate that fact too. Now let me come to the heart of this question. We have here two men, Lodge and Nixon, who have records, who have strong beliefs, and who have proved by their deeds what they believe. We have two men on the other side who disagree, disagree in their votes, disagree in their statements and, of course, you can see what would happen in the event that you left with them this proposition. But this isn't enough. I've got to say what I believe, why I believe this issue is important, and I want to put it in an entirely different context. I think too many people come before a group of our Negro Americans, as you are, and simply talk about civil rights. You people are interested in that, but you're also interested in America. And I want to say to you that when I talk on this issue of civil rights it's not only because you're interested in it as individuals but because America has to have a solution to this problem. And that's what I say in the North, East, West, and South. Let me give you an example. All of you have been following the United Nations over there on television. I see those aerials. Now, you've seen Mr. Khrushchev, haven't you? Did you see his speech the other day? Did you hear what he said? Here's a man who has enslaved millions of people, and I have seen those Russians. Here's a man who has slaughtered thousands of people in the streets of Hungary - and I saw the refugees come across from Hungary, boys and girls in their teens driven across by this man. He was the man responsible for the slaughter in Budapest. Here's this man at the United Nations in New York, and what does he do? He, the enslaver of millions - he, the slaughterer of thousands - points the finger to the United States and says, "you who stand for freedom or say you do, you practice prejudice and hatred at home, and you say something different abroad." And I say we've got to change that so that neither this man nor anyone else can point the finger to the United States and say we're not living up to the ideals for which we stand. Now, how do we change it? We've got to change it by giving everybody in this country an equal chance. You know, we all can't hit home runs, but we are all entitled to our time at bat, and that means everybody here. It means everybody regardless of what his background may be. That's why I have a program in the field of education which will see to it that our young people who ought to go to college, who do have the ability, get to go and are not denied it because they don't have the money. That's why I have a program in the field of housing and metropolitan development which will see that all of our people move forward together and that no one is left behind. That is why I say to you that in this field of human rights it isn't just a question of what we do for Negro Americans or others that are discriminated against. It's a question of what we do for America. America needs you. America needs the best you can produce. I know that all of you have heard the story of George Washington Carver - it's one of the most exciting ones in history - this boy who used to walk a total of 12 miles to and from school in order to get an education. This boy making discoveries in the field of science which developed scores of new products in the South. Now we need to see to it that every potential George Washington Carver gets the education that he needs and deserves - and there may be some right out here. We need to see to it that not only everyone who can be a great football or baseball player gets a chance, as Jackie Robinson did, but also that everyone who can be a scientist, everyone who can be a minister, everyone who can be a legislator, everyone who can serve America gets his chance. That's what I believe in. That is why I say we are going to see that you get the chance, and we are not just going to talk a good game for votes. We are going to play a good game, because America needs nothing less, and this is what I say to you today And so, my friends, I thank you for your attention. I ask for your consideration. I only say this: I do not make promises. I make to you assertions and pledges that I intend to keep, and I say to you that I believe in this cause. I believe in it because I have seen the world. I believe in it because I know that America cannot win the struggle for peace and freedom unless we are an example of opportunity for all to see abroad. We can't talk one way abroad and practice something else at home. I have been abroad, and I know what it is, and I say that you can help, help us work together in solving this problem so that America can be a shining example of the country we love and want her always to be, an example in which every American has his chance, in which every American has his opportunity, in which every American has a chance to make his contribution to this greatest country in the world. Thank you very much.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you. Thank you very much. If I could have your attention a moment? When Senator Case was introduced a moment ago, he was caught in this great crowd, but he is on his way now, and as soon as he gets to the platform, I'll interrupt my speech so that you can get a chance to pay your salute to your Senator from the State of New Jersey. Here he is. Come on, Case. Let's give him a big hand. Come on. [Applause.] Thank you very much. Senator Case, Mr. Mayor, I want to tell all of you in this great assemblage here how much Pat and I have appreciated your welcoming us as you have. We've been, frankly, literally overwhelmed by the crowds as we came in and we particularly appreciate the fact that this is a rather odd hour, a difficult hour for many of you. You are busy. I suppose it is not too difficult for all the students here - you're getting out of class, so that is a little reward. [Cheers - Applause.] But let me say this, that whether you get out of class or not, I think it is very good of you to come to give us an opportunity to meet you, to give you a chance to see your Government in action, and to see one of the candidates for the Presidency of the United States. I always have, of course, as does any candidate, a problem in determining what is particularly of interest to a crowd as great as this one, where you have students and older people, where you have people in all occupations, in all walks of life. And so I just want to make three or four points that I would like for you to remember - remember as you attempt to make your decision on November 8. Now the first one, and I make this not only to the grownups, who can vote on November 8, I want every student here who is not of voting age to go home and tell his parents what I am just about to say. The decision that the American people make on November 8 will be the most important decision any of them will make this year - it will be the most important decision you make in your life. Why? Because it determines the future of this country. It determines the future of the children that we have here. It determines what kind of jobs they're going to have, what kinds of schools we're going to have. Most of all, it determines the great problem of whether we're going to be around to enjoy the good jobs, and the good schools that we all ought to have in this country of ours. And so, point one. I urge everybody here - everybody - I urge you, however you're going to vote, you go home, see that your parents vote and vote on November 8 so this is a majority decision of all the people, and not just a few of them who have the good sense to go out and vote. Everybody vote on November 8! How about that? [Applause.] Now, I'm going to come to the point that I came here to New Jersey for, to tell you how I think you ought to vote. Obviously, I'm a little prejudiced and you've got to take that into account. But in speaking to you about how you ought to vote, I want to say, first of all, that I'm tremendously proud of our Republican candidates in this State. I think in Cliff Case you have a man who has represented this area, this State, superbly in the Congress of the United States and in the Senate of the United States, he belongs in the U.S. Senate, not only does New Jersey need him, but America needs him. We want him back and I hope he comes back with the biggest majority that he's ever had in this State. [Applause.] Obviously, I'm a little prejudiced, too, with regard to the Congressman that I hope you will elect. Now this is a very unusual situation. My name is Nixon, I have just been introduced by a Kennedy. Now, look, if you got Kennedy and Nixon together, isn't that the best combination you could possibly have? How about it? [Applause.] So I say to you, Walter Kennedy, a vigorous, articulate man, who will represent this district well, who will follow in the footsteps of one of the ablest, finest men that ever came to the Congress, Gordon Canfield, my friend here. I say that I do commend him to you. Now, of course, I suppose everybody here says: "Well, here it comes. Now this fellow, Nixon, is going to say, 'Vote for Nixon, too." I want to tell you what I want you to do now. I think that when the American people elect a President of the United States, it isn't enough for me to come before a great audience like this and say to all my Republican friends: "I'm Republican, you're Republican, vote Republican." I know that Senator Kennedy said, a couple of days ago that "the important thing was to vote the party. That the party was what counts." My friends, I don't say that today. I say that when we elect a President of the United States, what counts is not whether you're Republican or Democrat, but what's good for America, and I say: Let's vote for America in this election campaign. [Applause.] To all of you students who have history - I guess you call it social studies, these days, they do in the schools my girls attend - now, in history you will find that some of our great Presidents have been Republican, and some of them have been Democrats, but the important thing is, the American people, when you elect a President recognize we have to get the best man the two parties can produce, and so I submit my qualifications. I submit the qualifications of my running mate, Cabot Lodge, on that basis. Not on the basis, simply, vote the party line, but on the basis, if you think we're the best men for the job, then we ask for your support. And to all the Democrats and the independents here, I say: Don't just look at the label. Look behind the label. America needs the best, and so now I come to the point of what we offer. What do we offer to the American people? Well, first of all, we offer progress. Let me say this. I'm proud of the record of our administration. It's the best record of any administration in history in terms of anything you want to select. We built more schools than have ever been built in any administration before; more hospitals have been built; we've seen a greater advance in social security than we have ever seen in any administration before with the number of people covered extended by 8 million, with the benefits raised; we have seen, in addition to that, and consider this - very wage earner here - we've seen real wages go up five times as much in this administration as they did in the 7 years previously, and we've seen prices, and every housewife will know this, go up only one-fifth as much as they did in the previous administration. Now, I could stand on this record. I could say, "Now folks, we have a great record, we're proud of it, and I stand on the record." But I don't. I tell you that a record is not something to stand on, it's something to build on. My father always used to tell me when we were growing up - he came from a very poor family, he only finished the sixth grade, but he never used to say to the five boys in our family that he wanted to go back to the good old days, or that we were pretty lucky to be living when we were. He said, "Look, in America, we always want a better life for our youngsters than we have for ourselves." And that's the way I feel. We are going to build a better America. We are going to give to all the people in this country the opportunity that they deserve to move forward with all of America. Let me put it this way. In these next 4 years, all America must move forward in housing, in health, in income, and nobody must be left behind. That means no part of our country must be left behind. It means that no individual must be left behind. It means that every young person here, who ought to go to college, who has the ability to go, should go, and I have a plan and I have advanced it so that the young people who have the ability and the grades are not denied the opportunity to go to school, simply because they don't have the money, and I think all of you agree that ought to be done. [Applause.] Now I could go on, but all of you can well say: "Well, now, look, isn't everybody for things like this?" And the answer is "Yes." The point is, who can do it? And I point first to our record, I point to our program and you also have to consider the man. I will only say this: That I believe that America can move forward with our administration where it will not move with our opponents. I believe that we can move forward in a way that the American people can get more for their money than they will with our opponents and I want to make one thing very clear. Their program for progress would cost more, but my friends, remember this: When somebody from Washington comes down and says: "I promise you this, that, or the other thing," and when he says, "My program is going to cost more than the other fellows and therefore I am more for the people than you are," just remember, when a person makes that kind of promise, he's going to pay it off, not with his money, but with your money. It isn't Jack's money that's going to pay these promises, but your money and I feel we ought to save your money wherever we possibly can. [Applause.] And, so, it is true our program for health, education, and welfare and the like - they will not spend as much of your money as theirs will, but they will move America forward. Why? Because we call on all the resources of America, the States, the local government, but most of all, we stimulate the energies of 180 million Americans. Now the most important point of all. I've mentioned jobs, housing, schools and everybody here must say: What in the world, Mr. Nixon, could be more important than things like that? And, of course, my answer again is, as I indicated a moment ago: What is more important than that are policies that will see that we're around to enjoy the good jobs and the good schools and the good housing that we have. Look, you see it today. You read your morning papers. Khrushchev in the U.N., pounding the table, threatening the peace of the world. I say the most important qualification of the next President is this: Who can best keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? This is the great issue of the time. [Applause.] Now everybody is for peace and all that I can submit to you is this. First, our record. Oh, you've heard criticism of it, but my friends, this State which gave President Eisenhower such tremendous majorities, and all Americans that gave him great majorities, will be thankful for him for a number of things, but most of all, they will be thankful that under his leadership we ended one war, we've kept America out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today, and we're going to keep the peace for America under our leadership. [Applause.] And so, how are we going to do it? You must look at our record. We have been a part of that record, and we're proud of it. But again, we don't stand on it. How do I say that we can do this job? Well, first, when you look at my colleague and I, we know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat down across the conference table with him. We know that he is a man who is ruthless and tough. We know that you must never make him a concession unless you get a concession in return. That's why President Eisenhower was right in not doing what Mr. Khrushchev asked him to do again in the paper this morning in not apologizing and not expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev as Senator Kennedy suggested he might. [Applause.] That is why the next President of the United States must recognize that Mr. Khrushchev does not react like Mr. Nehru, he isn't like Mr. Adenauer, or Mr. Macmillan. He is a man determined to conquer the world and so, first, we will keep America strong - the strongest in the world. Second, we will see that the economy of this country moves forward so that Mr. Khrushchev never will be able to get through on his boast that "he is going to catch us." Third, we will see that we are firm, but we will never be, belligerent, because we realize that while we hold the line for principle, we must always negotiate for peace, but never, again, making concessions, as I say, which don't get concessions in return. Will all this bring peace? My friends, it has the best chance to keep it. But there is one other factor that I mention that is more important than all these. I mention it to this great crowd because there are so many young people here. Some day we hear that: Why do we talk about peace? Why do we go around in other countries talking good will and debating these great issues? Why all this talk about ideals that we stand for? And do you know what is decisive in this struggle for peace and freedom? Our military strength is important. Our economic strength is important, but what is most important is that Americans believe in the right things. And what are those things? Those are the things that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. America was a poor country then and we were a weak country militarily, but we were strong in the eyes of the world because we believed in ideals that are greater than this country. In school you hear about them. Remember, it is the most important thing about America you can ever hear - faith in God, belief in the dignity of man, recognition of the right of all men and women, regardless of their background to have an equal chance at the starting line. We can't all hit home runs, but we're all entitled to our time at bat, and we must see to it, and we're proud of our record in this administration in which we've acted, and the other side's only talked about what they're going to do about this particular issue. But beyond that, we've got to keep the moral and spiritual fiber of this country strong, and that comes, my friends, from you, from the schools, from the churches, from the homes of America. And so I say to you today: Yes, I have faith in this country. I have seen the world - 55 countries - and I know how fortunate we are to live here. I am proud of our record, but I say we've got to move forward on that record because the world isn't standing still, and I pledge to you that we will keep America the strongest nation militarily, that we will move forward to a great era of progress in which all Americans move together, a better life for our children than we have for ourselves, but most of all, we're going, also, to keep the ideals of America strong because, remember, if we're going to win the struggle for peace and freedom, we need a burning patriotism, faith in the rightness of our cause, belief that we're going to win. And my friends, we are. We're going to win because we're of the right side and it is on that basis, again, that I present this case to you. If you believe that what I stand for, what my colleague, Cabot Lodge stands for, that our experience in dealing with these problems is what America needs, then I say, we ask for your support and remember that as you work for us you're working not just for a party, but what is best for America and that is best for you, too. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Senator Case, Congressman Frelinghuysen; I don't know what other Congressmen are here at this time. Flo Dwyer, are you here? No. I want to tell you first how deeply appreciative Pat and I are that you have stood here so long waiting for us. We've had a little difficulty in Union County getting through because there have been tremendous crowds all the way along and we've been stopped several times. So, I'm sure you will agree that if we were stopped that much and if we're that late it's for a good cause. Also behind me on this bandwagon are, I understand, a great number of people who can't see, but who can hear, and I want them to know as soon as we finish here we'll walk around on the other side and see them. You can hear them. I also want to thank the chairman for arranging this wonderful tour, all those who have put on the meeting, and my friend, Jackie Robinson, for keeping people entertained until we got here. You know, I was just thinking if that series coming up, the Yankees and the Pirates - it's predicted to be a close one - Jackie, I wonder if you couldn't help out one of those teams. What do you think? He said not with his weight. Well, in any event, I do want to say just a word to you while we are here with regard to the great issues we are confronted with in this campaign. I know that all of you appreciate the fact that a candidate has a tremendous problem in trying to think of those things that will be of greatest interest to a group like this because he has very little time to say it, and I have thought, as I have driven along here today and thinking of this crowd, that there were about three points that I would want you to remember particularly. The first one is this: What should be your test in determining who to vote for for President? Now, a couple of days ago in Minnesota Senator Kennedy said that the test should be the party. It would be very easy for me in this predominantly Republican area to say: "All of you folks who are Republicans should vote Republican because I am a Republican," as I am, but I'm going to tell you why I don't say that. I happen to think that when we elect a President of the United States, particularly in these times when the President of the United States must not only lead America, but the whole free world, that it isn't enough simply to vote on the basis of a party label. I think that what should come first is not the party but America, and I ask you to vote for America first because of that. Now, my second point is this: If you're going to vote for America, what are those things America needs? And that gets down to you. What do you want? Well, again, there are a number of issues that we are all interested in. As I see all these young people around, you have the same feeling with regard to your children that we have with regard to ours. We want America always to move forward, and we don't want anybody left behind. We want all of our people to have an opportunity in this country for education, for good jobs, for housing, for health, all the things that spell progress, all the things that make America today as she is - and never forget this - the strongest and the best country in the world - and we're going to keep her that way in the years ahead. But, you know, after you consider all these things, we must also remember that the best jobs, the best medical care, the finest social security in the world, all these things we want, aren't going to be worth anything unless we're around to enjoy them. So, therefore, the first test that you must apply to the candidates for the Presidency of the United States is this one, a very stern one: It's which of the two candidates is better qualified, by experience, by judgment, by background, by program, to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world and to extend freedom throughout the world. Now, talking to that point for a moment, naturally, you have to assume I'm a little prejudiced on that point, but I want to point out that my colleague, Cabot Lodge and I, begin with a record, and you must hold us accountable for that record. For 7½ years we have been part of the Eisenhower administration. We have sat in the Cabinet, in the Security Council. We have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions on Lebanon, Quemoy, and Matsu, and others with which you are familiar. Now, you've heard a lot of criticisms of that record, but I want to say one thing about it today that all of the criticism in the world cannot obscure, and that is: The American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower and his leadership because it got this Nation out of a war it was in; it's kept us out of other wars; and we do have peace without surrender today. Now, I could just stand on that record. I could say that's good enough. We're part of it. So, elect the men who made it and helped to make it.  But, my friends, it isn't enough to stand still today. We're in a competition. We're in a war for survival with men who are ruthless, men who are fanatical, men who are unprincipled, who follow no rules of the game, and in order for America not only to keep her own freedom, but to extend freedom, in order for us to keep the peace not only for ourselves, but for others as well, in order for America to stay ahead in this race for survival, we've got to move ahead. This means - and this we pledge you - that we've got to keep ourselves stronger militarily than any potential enemy of peace, and we must ask the American people to pay whatever price is necessary to do that, and we will. It means that this country must move forward economically; move forward, as I have indicated before, with all Americans moving together, and in that connection let me spell it out just a bit. We're a very rich country, twice as productive as the Soviet Union. We have the best system in the world. But, in order to maintain the advantage that we have we've got to remember that we must move ahead. I remember when I was talking to Mr. Khrushchev in Moscow, he said, "Mr. Vice President, I know you're ahead of us now, economically, but," he said, "you're not going to stay ahead." he said, "We're moving faster than you are and we're going to catch you and," he said, "when we catch you about 7 years from now I'm going to wave and say, 'come along follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind.'"'' He believes that. Now, he's wrong. He's wrong because his system is wrong. He's wrong also for a more fundamental reason: Because he underestimates the will and the determination of 180 million free Americans to make our system work and to make it the most productive in the world. And let me say this: In moving ahead, it gives me an opportunity to say a word about my friend Jackie Robinson. You know, we often hear of this issue of civil rights discussed in terms of what we are doing for those who happen to be Negro Americans. In effect, we are doing this for them, somewhat as if it were a favor. Let's remember something. As we make American ideals live, we're doing it for America. As we make the moral and spiritual fiber of this country stronger, we're strengthening America. We need all Americans working together. We can't afford to waste the talents of any young prospective scientist or engineer or lawyer or leader. We've got to see that everybody has a chance in this country. The world's series starts tomorrow, and I think the best way to state it is this: We all aren't going to be able to hit home runs, but everybody in this country is entitled to his chance at bat. I stand for that, and I'm proud to have the opportunity to say it here after being introduced by a man who has proved that at bat on the baseball field, writing for newspapers, and as an American citizen that he's one of the great Americans of our time - Jackie Robinson. And, so, we will move America forward. We will keep her strong militarily. We will be firm diplomatically. Why is that important? Because again we're dealing with men who are ruthless and tough, men who don't react like the leaders of the free world. I know Chancellor Adenauer, Mr. Nehru, Mr. De Gaulle, if you were dealing with them, the rules would be different. Your conduct would be different. But when you're concerned with a man like Mr. Khrushchev you must remember that here's a man fanatically dedicated to conquering the world, who will break every rule and, therefore, we have to have people who know him who will be just as firm and as tough as he is who will always be willing to go an extra mile to negotiate, but who will never make a concession without getting one in return, and that's what we will do. This will keep the peace without surrender. And now the last point that I would make is this: We want progress for all of you here. I know that, as we consider the terms of progress, that many of you would say, "Well, when is he going to start making the promises?" "I promise to do this and that and the other thing. The Federal Government is going to solve this problem, that problem, and others." And I want to tell you something: I'm apparently an unusual candidate in that respect. I don't believe that the American people expect a candidate who tries, in effect, to buy their votes with their own money. And let me put it this way: I have a program for schools, for housing, for medical care, for breakthroughs in science that will produce, in my opinion, the greatest progress we've ever seen. I think they will produce more progress than my opponent's in every one of those fields. I think they will produce a better life than his will. But there's one difference between mine and his, a very grave one, in addition to the one I have just mentioned. His would cost a lot more. They would cost approximately $10 billion more. But my point is, it isn't Jack's money he's spending to keep those promises, but yours, and I say you're entitled to it. And I say the best government is the government that has us doing everything we should do in Washington, and spending every dollar that we should for America's security, but which remembers that the source of our progress is not what government does primarily, but what government gets 180 million free Americans to do, remembers that every dollar we spend comes from you, and, so, I say: I recognize this, and until we have proof that it's needed, and unless we do, we are going to remember that a dollar on that Federal budget is one that comes from the family budget, and as you shop in these stores every housewife here knows exactly what I'm talking about. And so I say to you: I do promise that in these years ahead we will have the greatest progress America has had, but we're going to have it by what Americans all do, and not by turning over everything to Washington. I do say we do have the experience, I think, and the background to keep the peace without surrender. But it requires on your part keeping America strong in her ideals. And all that I can say in conclusion is that as you look out over a great crowd like this, as you realize the time and the energy that it took all of you to come, I can only say it makes me and it makes Pat very humble in our responsibility. We have seen the world due to the fact you gave us the opportunity to serve as Vice President. We've been to 55 countries, and all you have to do to appreciate this country is to go abroad. It's a great country. We believe in it. We have faith in its ideals. But, most of all, we want to see that those ideals are shared with all the world and if I make one pledge to you it is this: We will stand for what is best for America, not only here, but abroad. We will stand for peace without surrender. We will stand for extending freedom and, above all, as we travel throughout this country, we will remember this crowd on this beautiful day in this city ,this crowd of people who are putting their trust in us, and we pledge to you that we won't let you down. Thank you very much.
My opponent shows a flair for fashioning promises to audiences. To groups and regions are offered custom-made promises in the flowing guise of moving America ahead. I say that America is far more than the sum of the conflicting wishes of our sections and groups. The Presidency is not the property of any bloc or special interest; it must be the office of all - all Americans. Our real new frontier lies, not in fragmenting the Nation's interests but in uniting the national purpose. I refer today to my opponent's new farm program. Though presented in South Dakota and framed as an appeal to farmers, it directly concerns every American citizen. In fact, the impact of his program on nonfarmers would be more dramatic than any farm program ever seriously advanced in our country. You are entitled to know exactly how his farm program would affect you. Here are the facts - they were prepared by career farm and food experts. (1) Senator Kennedy's plan would run overall food costs up by 25 percent. This means that, if ever his farm program of planned scarcity were adopted, you would find these results at your grocery store:  For every quart of milk you would pay almost 6 cents more. For a dozen eggs you would pay 28 cents more. For chicken you would pay about 22 cents a pound more. For pork you would pay about 23 cents a pound more. For choice beef you would pay about 15 cents a pound more. For every loaf of bread you would pay about 2 cents more. And so on, up and down the aisles in your grocery store. That's what my opponent's farm plan would do for all Americans, including those least able to pay - run up their grocery bills by 25 percent. Even a sales tax - which has been recommended by Mr. Galbraith - one of the Senator's closest advisers - would do less damage to the average-income citizen on his food bills. (2) That isn't all. By raising food costs, his plan would also force up the Consumer Price Index - often called the cost-of-living - by at least 6 percent. First wages, then prices, all across the land - right here, and every place else - would be affected. The Kennedy plan is planned inflation. (3) Next, Senator Kennedy would cut, throughout America, the supply of beef and pork per person below what we had during the rationing days of World War II. He would raise beef and pork prices by making meat scarce. (4) But even that isn't all. Senator Kennedy would throw onto the unemployment rolls approximately 1 million people now engaged in serving the needs of farm people and handling their products. (5) He would do even more. He would cut the size of the farm output by about one-fifth, or about the equivalent of another million jobs. Farmers would be driven off farms in shocking numbers. They would be forced to compete with city workers in a desperate effort to find jobs. (6) In addition, the Senator would raise Government costs. Take just wheat as an example. The subsidy involved in exporting each bushel of wheat would go from a comparable 50 cents today to at least $1.75. (7) Finally, his plan would unavoidably make America second rate certain farm products. Mr. Khrushchev publicly boasts of his intention to catch up with the United States in the production of such farm products as meat and milk. If Senator Kennedy's plan is put into effect, Mr. Khrushchev can realize his ambition for a number of farm products. That specific ally includes milk. I must add that my opponent's plan would be no better for farmers than for consumers. I have already pointed out that he would liquidate one out of every five farm jobs. He would also tighten the grip of Government controls, at least quadruple the number of Federal inspectors who enforce Government regulations. He would have the American farmer sell his freedom for a price. Thus he would deny to the American people the advantages of the scientific advances in agriculture during our generation. This is a reactionary farm program, seriously advanced, that would wreak havoc on farmer and consumer alike. I challenge the Senator to refute this analysis. I challenge him to admit to the American people that he plans to raise their food costs by 25 percent. I challenge him to deny that he would cut your meat supply below the World War II rationing level. I challenge him to concede that he is proposing to abolish a million farm jobs and another million nonfarm jobs. I challenge him to disprove that his plan will be inflationary throughout the economy.
With this kind of crowd, with the kind of enthusiasm and crowds we have had today in our motorcade in New Jersey, I say in this State we are on the march - and we're on the march to victory in November. Now, I heard some shouts just before I was introduced to the effect that: "We want Nixon." I just want to say this: I want something, too. I would like to urge each and every one of you to consider the fact that in this election campaign we're not only electing a President and a Vice President, but we're electing a Senator and we're electing Congressmen as well, and I want to name those people because certainly I am proud to be with them, to stand with them, today: Cliff Case, your U.S. Senator: and in this great Republican county of Essex, let's give Wallhauser some help with Miele and Palmieri. Let me tell you the reason that I always welcome the opportunity to mention those running for the House and the Senate - not only because it enables us to have responsible party government, but because there is always a tendency, you know, for people to get terribly excited about the presidential campaign and forget about the others - and, remember, they all count. They are all terrifically important to you. I commend these men to you as men of ability and our whole ticket up and down the line. So, with that, may I turn now to the day that we've had in New Jersey. May I tell you some of my reactions to it and may I indicate to you the course that I think this campaign is going to take in this State and throughout the Nation. In the first place, as you can gather, we have had big crowds, like this one. We've been tremendously inspired by these crowds because certainly it's a very humbling experience for someone to be able to travel through this State or any other State and see people who have waited a long time, who have come at some inconvenience to themselves, who, for example, are giving up tonight their favorite television program or something else they would rather be doing to be here to stand in the aisles. But, in any event, I can tell you that to have you show this interest is, indeed, something that we will never forget. It makes us realize the tremendous responsibility that we have, and it also makes us realize the interest that you have, that the people of the United States have, in his election campaign. Let me tell you something about it. Just to give you three spots in the last 4 or 5 days:  Memphis, Tenn.: 35,000 people standing in the rain for an hour to hear a political program and to hear a speech. In Boston, Mass., a place we expected very little in the way of crowds, for obvious reasons, a quarter of a million people - a quarter of a million people on the streets of Boston, Mass. - one of the greatest welcomes we've had in the whole campaign. In upper New York State, just a couple of days ago, in the rains, torrential rains, thousands of people on the streets. And today in New Jersey - you know the story, those of you who have traveled with us on this stage and those of you who are in this auditorium, so tightly packed, with your enthusiasm, recognizing the fact we have an overflow audience. This certainly means something, and I'm going to tell you what I think it means. I think the American people this year are tremendously concerned about this election, and they should be. It's one of the most important elections that we shall ever have in this country because we're electing not only a President of the United States and a Vice President of this country; we're electing not only Senators and Congressmen, but we're selecting the leadership that America and the free world is to have in this critical period of the sixties - and that leadership may well determine the difference, the difference between victory and defeat, in the struggle for the world between the forces of slavery and the forces of freedom. It may well determine, in addition to that, the course of the world as far as our children are concerned - not only what happens here at home, whether we have the progress that we want in the way of schools and housing and in other fields, but also whether or not we have the peace that we want for our children as we have enjoyed it under President Eisenhower's leadership during these last 7 years. And, so, I want to tell you what I have told audiences all over this country and what I again repeat to this audience: that it isn't enough in making the choice this year for the American people simply to vote a party label. It isn't enough for us to say, "This man wears the same label that I do." When we vote for a President of the United States in this critical period, I say the American people should elect the man, regardless of party who is best for him, and that is what our test is to you, and I say this year that, on that basis and based on what I have seen in all States of the Nation, millions of Democrats and Independents are going to join Republicans in voting for our ticket because it is best for America. Why do I say that? Why this tremendous upsurge of interest all over the country? I say it for reasons that all of you will understand. Because we stand for those things that the American people, regardless of party, want for this country. What are they? Let's put them in the simplest terms. Consider yourselves. What do you want? What do you want from Government? You want a Government under which, first, you can make a good living - a job, a good income, prices held stable so that your dollars that you earn today will be worth a dollar when you happen to retire later on. What else do you want? You want progress. We all agree that this Nation is the greatest nation in the world, and we're proud of the record - and may I say that I am immensely proud of the record - of our administration, proud of it because in every respect it has been one that has been good for the American people. It has been one that the American people will approve of. But, my friends, we Americans want to move forward, and, moving forward, we want better schools. We want to move forward with better housing. We want to move forward in all the areas that spell progress in this country. So, I say to you tonight that I stand and that my party in its platform stands for those things and those programs that will bring progress - better schools; better housing; development of the tremendous scientific resources of this country; development of a program in which we recognize and implement the rights of all people regardless of their race, creed, or color, to participate in America's growth and progress. These things we stand for but you might well ask: "But, Mr. Nixon, after all, why should that be so appealing to Democrats and Independents and Republicans all over the country? Doesn't everybody want this kind of progress?" And the answer is: Of course. But I'll tell you the difference. We have a program that will produce and they have one that won't, and we can prove it to them by the records. Look at the record. Schools? We have built more schools in the last 7 years than were built in the previous 20. Hospitals? More built in the last 7 years than in the previous administration or any administration in history. Jobs? Increase in jobs. Wages? What do we find there? The greatest increase in real wages in this administration, and prices held to one-fifth the rise that was in the previous administration. Whatever test you want to make, my friends, when you compare the Eisenhower 7 years with the Truman 7 years, it's Eisenhower every time - and that's what we stand for. Now, we stand not on this. We do not say this is where we are going to stay. We say that a record is not something to stand on, but something to build on, and we will build a better future. But what about our opponents? What do they stand for? Well, they talk about new frontiers, but, my friends, when we examine their programs, they're old. They are the same programs. They are pale carbon copies of what we left in 1953 and America is not going to go back to what we left then. We're going to go forward, as we will under our leadership. Let me put it another way - not in terms of the record, but in terms of our philosophy. Why do I say our programs will produce more in the way of progress than theirs ? Because our philosophy is one that will tap more of the resources in America than theirs. Let me explain it very simply. Whenever they see a problem, you will find that they turn first to Washington and they say the Federal Government must set up a program, a program that weakens individual enterprise, that takes responsibility from people rather than putting it on them, that weakens the responsibility of the States and the local government and says Washington is the answer. You know what we do? We start at the other side. We say that the way to progress in America is not to weaken individual enterprise, but to strengthen it. It's because our programs will stimulate the creative energies of 180 million free Americans, because we will tap those resources, that ours will produce progress, that theirs will not. Now, they differ in another way, and I should point this out as well. We differ in the promises we make. I've often been asked: "Mr. Nixon, how can you possibly expect to win an election in the United States when you're never able to promise as much as the other fellow?" And, so, I ask people to spell it out, and they say, "Well, you mention schools; you mention housing; you mention all these things that the people want, and in every instance your opponent comes in and says, 'I will spend more money than Mr. Nixon will spend.' Now, what's the answer?" The answer, very simply, is this: As far as these promises are concerned, he isn't going to pay for them with Jack's money, but with your money. Now, let's look at that situation. In other words, when you examine what a man running for public office tells you, when he says the Federal Government is going to do this and that or the other thing for you, remember, analyze everything he says, having in mind the fact he's not talking about what he's spending of his money for you, but yours; and I say the fact that our programs will do more and cost less is a recommendation for them rather than a recommendation against them. I say the fact that their programs will do less and cost billions more is the reason for Americans to vote against their programs and for ours. There's another thing about promises, you know. It's so easy to go before this group and say, "I promise you whatever you want," and the next group and say, "I'll give you whatever you want," and eventually, of course, however, sometimes you get caught up with and one group meets the other and says, "Well, I wonder. Do you mean the same thing here as you meant someplace else?" You know, I had a very interesting experience that I related a little earlier today. One young boy - I think about 12 or 14 - rushed up to the cars as we were going through. He said, "I'll tell you what I want you to promise." And I said, "What?" "A 4-day week for school," he said. Incidentally, if I had kept that promise, I might have gotten his vote, but I would sure have lost his mother's I'll bet. But let's suppose by making that promise, just putting it in its simplest terms, I could have gotten a vote a few years from now. On the other hand, it wouldn't have been right to make it because it wouldn't have been good for him - and that's exactly the point that I'm making here today. When I go before any group in this country - I don't care whether it is a group of labor leaders or a group of farm leaders or a group of business leaders - I make it very clear that, while I will always be a friend of all of these groups, I cannot make a commitment to be 100 percent for any of them because whoever is President of this country has to belong to all the people of America and not to any one group. Now, let me spell this out in very direct terms as to how it affects you in one program. I was mentioning earlier today the farm program, and a few eyes were lifted and the question raised: "Why in the world is the Vice President talking about farm program up here in this highly industrialized area ?" My reason, of course, is that a farm program is of great concern to the farmers and we have one that will solve the farm problem that will maintain farm income and increase farm income, but it is a program of abundance rather than one of scarcity. It is a program that will not fasten forever Government controls on the farmers, but will lead to lifting the surpluses and the Government from his back - and I submit that our program is better for the farmers than theirs. But his, our opponent's, is a different one. It is a program which promises the farmer everything but it isn't going to fool him for reasons that I'm going to mention. Look what it does to the consumer. I've had it analyzed. Now, listen to this: First of all, it would raise food costs, overall, by 25 percent. Now, that's too complicated. Let's get it right down to what it would mean. Every quart of milk under this program costs 6 cents more; a dozen eggs 28 cents more; a chicken 22 cents a pound more; pork 23 cents a pound more; beef 15 cents a pound more; every loaf of bread 2 cents more. This is what the farm program as it was announced by our opponent at his speech in Sioux Falls would do to food prices in this country. Now, let me say that's going to have quite an effect on the grocery bill. It's going to have quite an effect on inflation. In addition to that, it's going to have an effect on the supply of all of these products because it will reduce the supply of beef and pork per person below that which we had during rationing in World War II, and you remember what that was. It would also result in, one, reducing employment on the farm a million; reducing employment off the farm by another million, an in addition to that, it would put the United States behind even the Soviet Union in the production of some of these critical items like meat and milk. As far as the farmer is concerned, it would liquidate 1 out of every 5 farm jobs; it would tighten controls. All these things it would do. And, so, tonight I say to you: When you consider the promises that a man makes, remember, they're made far off in Sioux Falls, but they affect not only the farmer there; they affect the people here. And so tonight I challenge our opponent - I challenge him: One, to refute these things I have said, because this is based on an analysis point by point, by experts in the field. I challenge him to say whether or not food prices will be raised 25 percent, because if they are, the people of America are entitled to know it. I challenge him to say whether or not our meat supply will be reduced. I challenge him to say whether or not we will find a reduction in farm jobs. I challenge him to say whether there will be a reduction in nonfarm jobs, whether or not there will be inflation. Why do I raise these points? Because, my friends, when we are electing a President of the United States, dealing with issues that are so terribly important to the country, all the people of this country are entitled to know what his programs will do, and I say in this instance that our opponents have offered a farm program, one, that will not help the farmer; it would hurt him. It's a program that would not help the consumer; it would hurt him. And I say the American people on this program alone ought to reject his candidacy for the Presidency of the United States. And now, if I could turn to my last point: What else do people want from government? They want jobs. They want good housing programs, health programs, an opportunity to get all these things for their children; but, above everything else, our people want to be around to enjoy the good life that we have in this country. Putting it another way, the greatest test to which you must put me and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, the greatest test to which you must put our opponents is this: Which of the two teams can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace for America without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? And Alec Smith will tell you there's no issue more dominant than that because of his long service in that field. He knows its tremendous importance and the critical importance of it now. Bob Kean will tell you the same thing, and he has the same kind of background. He's had the opportunity to see what these world problems are. Cliff Case will tell you the same thing. Why do I emphasize it today particularly? Because we have it right in our front yard, so we can see it - Mr. Khrushchev visiting the United States, talking at the United Nations. And, so, tonight I submit to you, first, our record; second, our experience; and, third, our program for keeping the peace without surrender and for extending freedom, on the record - on the record. We have heard, and we're going to hear, a lot of criticism of this record, and where our opponents think it's wrong, they have a responsibility to criticize it, and they will; but we have a responsibility to defend it where we think they're wrong, and on the record, may I say, that all the criticism in the world of the Eisenhower record cannot obscure the fact that it succeeded. How? Because it succeeded in ending one war and keeping us out of other wars, and in bringing peace without surrender today. Now, I turn to experience. I, of course, will not comment on my own experience - that is for you to decide - but I can certainly comment on my running mate's, and I will say this: No man in the world today has had more valuable experience, and I don't think any man could have done a more effective job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, as our Ambassador to the United Nations. And I pledge to you tonight that he will work with me, work with me as President Eisenhower has used his Vice President and even extending the opportunities that I have had, work with me in strengthening the instruments of peace like the United Nations, strengthening the instruments of peace like the Organization of American States, developing new organizations where necessary that will extend freedom and keep the peace throughout the world. Now, what else do we have to recommend in addition to that? We have been part of this record. For 7½ years we have sat in the Cabinet, in the National Security Council. We have participated in the decisions on the great situations on Lebanon, on Quemoy and Matsu and others that have involved avoiding war on the one side and surrender on the other. And one other point we should point to: We know who our opponents are. We have sat across the conference table from Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communist leaders and, knowing them, I believe we know how to deal with them - and that is what we offer you today. How do you deal with them? One, recognizing that they are ruthless men, dedicated to the fanatical purpose of overwhelming the whole world, by any means, if necessary. This means that the United States must maintain the position that it has, whatever the cost, today and that is keep our military strength at the level where no one will dare start anything in the world - and we will do that. Second, it means keeping the economy of this country strong and sound and productive and free. You've heard a lot about the growth of the Soviet economy as compared to ours. I remember Mr. Khrushchev said, "Mr. Nixon, we're going to catch you in 7 years, and when we catch you and go by you, I'm going to wave and say, 'Come along; follow us and do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind."' Let me tell you, my friends, he isn't going to catch us in 7 or 70 years if we stay true to the great principles that have made America the strong Nation that it is today. But he will catch us if we make the mistake of adopting programs that would blunt individual enterprise, that would discourage investment, that would discourage incentive. That is why again our programs will produce progress and theirs, I am convinced, will not. Military strength, economic strength. What else is needed? Diplomatic firmness. By diplomatic firmness, I do not mean belligerence. I mean the kind of firmness without belligerence that President Eisenhower has displayed, and in that connection just let me say this I noted in the paper the other day Senator Kennedy was quoted as saying this; he said: "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President is doing." Well, let me tell you something: If he would quit talking a little while and start reading, he'd find out what the President of the United States is doing. He isn't doing the things they're doing. No. He isn't making a fool of himself at the United Nations, as Mr. Khrushchev did. Why doesn't he answer back in kind? Well, there are two main reasons for that: One, he has the responsibility never to heat up the international atmosphere by engaging in a war of words. But, second, my friends, when you're confident of your strength, when you know you're right, you never get down to the level of an insulter. You keep the dignity of your office. No, he isn't doing what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. He isn't attempting to muscle into the Congo unilaterally. You can read about that in the paper. It makes news. It's spectacular. But what do we do? We work through the United Nations to try to save the Congo, and we're succeeding. I say the President does not set up as Mr. Khrushchev does a spectacular phony disarmament plan. He sets forth before the United Nations a program that will work, one that will make certain that when one party disarms, the other does likewise, and unless we have that kind of agreement, America can never reduce its strength - and I know all of you agree with that. And, so, I say to you tonight: I stand here speaking of this record. I stand here talking of experience, but most of all, I stand here to tell you that my colleague and I, knowing the men with whom we deal, know that we can never rest for a moment on our record, that we must move forward militarily. We must move forward economically. We must always keep the initiative in the diplomatic arena, and we will. We must do all of these things and, in addition to that, we must not just hold the line for freedom. We've got to extend it, extend it to the new nations, newly developing around the world, extending it to the people behind the iron curtain as well. And what does this mean? It means developing in this country not only in its President and its Vice President, but in its people, another kind of strength - the most decisive of all. What is it? I've seen it. Others, Alec Smith has seen it as he has traveled abroad. You've seen it. I saw it in Poland a year ago. We went there on a Sunday afternoon. There was no announcement as to when we were to arrive or as to where the cars were going to travel in the downtown area, but word gets around in a Communist country or any dictatorial country and a quarter of a million Poles were on the streets. They were a wild crowd, wilder than this one even. They were shouting "Niech Zyje America." And, as the car was stopped in the middle of the streets, eight times in downtown Warsaw, I had a chance to look into their faces, and a lot of them were smiling. All of them were cheering, and half of them, grown men and women were crying with tears running down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily or rich economically. They knew that. But Khrushchev had been there a week before and he had bragged of that kind of strength and they hadn't given him that kind of reception. No. Because America now, and for all of our existence, has stood for something more than military strength and economic strength. We have stood for moral and spiritual ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. We've got to strengthen those ideals. What are they? They are very simple, but they're bigger than this country. They belong to the whole world - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our belief that the rights that men have to freedom come not from men, but from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away from men; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent; that all people have a right to be free. These things we believe. These things America stands for. These things America came into the world to preserve, not only for Americans, but for the whole world; and these are the things I pledge to you, with your help, because you must help - these things with your help, by strengthening the ideals of America in our schools, in our homes, in our churches, with your help, we will carry these ideals to the whole world - and as we do that, we will win this struggle, and we will win it - why? Because America is strong - not only militarily and economically, but because we have something to offer that the Communists cannot offer. We will be on the right side and, as you help us to be on the right side, we will win this struggle for peace and for freedom. It is that that Cabot Lodge and I ask for the opportunity to serve you and this Nation. It is in that spirit that we ask for your help in this campaign. And now go out and do the job. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Governor Rockefeller, my fellow vice president, president of the student body, all of the distinguished guests, Lieutenant Governor Wilson, and friends of Fordham, I am certainly very honored that I have been given the opportunity to address this convocation of Fordham students and friends of this great institution. There are many reasons why I feel that way. The first, of course, is the obvious one to which Father Yanitelli referred - that I happen to be one of those who have received an honorary degree from this institution, and I'm glad to be at least an honorary alumnus. I don't think that I could pass the course today, but I'm glad to get it free. It really wasn't entirely free. I had to make a speech. But, be that as it may, I also want to say that I was very pleased to hear the Fordham band playing "California, Here I Come." Going back a few years, to the days of Rose Hill to Rose Bowl, I would think that's what they were referring to, but I know that it referred to me on this occasion, and we certainly appreciate that. I know, of course, there are not many among those in the student body these days who remember the great series between Fordham and St. Mary's, and remember that year when those great Fordham football teams should have been invited to the Rose Bowl, but some way or another we Westerners made a mistake and invited somebody we could beat for a change. We haven't done it for a while, but-- Also, may I say that the opportunity to appear before a group like this presents a tremendous challenge to a speaker, a challenge because you, at the present time, have the chance, every day, to be inspired and stimulated by great ideas, from men who have and are giving their lives to the responsibility of stimulating and inspiring young men and women to their creative best. And, so, therefore, for me to come off the campaign trail for a moment, to come here to participate in this meeting is, first, an honor and, second, it is, indeed, I can assure you, a great challenge. I want to apologize for being late. It always will be the occasion when some of you run for office that you will find you will run late on a schedule. Incidentally, I find that the president of your student body is a history major, and I'd like to point out he'd better watch out. I was a history major. I was also president of a student body - a very small institution - but look what happened to me. He will probably end up in something, too. The coincidence doesn't end there. He's going to study law, too, and so did I. So, I would like to say the fact we were late is just one of the problems of scheduling, and I also realize that the enthusiasm of your reception may be due to the fact you got out of an extra class, because we were late. And now to the issues of the campaign. I know that each of you realizes the problem I have: What issue to discuss? There are so many things that we could talk about. We could spend the rest of the day, the rest of the week, the rest of the year, talking to an audience like this, having a give-and-take exchange on the issues confronting America and the issues confronting the world. Today I do not want to talk to you in terms solely of the political debate that's going on in the country. You will have plenty of opportunity to see that and to hear it, and I imagine to participate in it. I want to talk to you about the great issue of our time, and I do not want to miss the opportunity to talk particularly to those of you who are students here about the contributions you can make and, as a matter of fact you must make to the solution of those issues. And, so, I begin with the greatest issue, already implied by the introduction, and that is, of course, the issue of survival, one that has been brought to our attention, as Father McGinley was indicating when I called upon him a few moments ago, by the presence of Mr. Khrushchev in the United States. We see this man. We see in his face, in his actions, in his unpredictability, in his ruthlessness - we see the challenge that America and the free world faces today. There is no disagreement among us as to whether we ought to meet this challenge. Whether we are Democrats or Republicans or Independents we all believe that it is essential to develop a program which will w in the peace, win the peace without losing our freedom, and that will extend freedom throughout the world. And I think this we should all understand at the beginning. As a matter of fact, I would only make one correction to the very eloquent introduction by the president of the student body. He said there were all shades of political coloration here. I would say, except red, in this audience today. And that is true of all American audiences throughout the country. Our concern is the same: How do we keep our freedom? How do we extend it? How do we maintain the peace of the world? Turning to this point, and looking first at the challenge, there are some obvious conclusions on which we would all agree. First, knowing the man who is the symbol of the opposition to peace and freedom, the one who challenges it, knowing the man, we can reach only one conclusion as to what kind of policies are effective in dealing with him. What does he want? He wants to conquer the world. What means will he use to do it? Any means. He would prefer to do it without war, as he said over and over again, although his Chinese colleague, Mao Tse-tung, says that he, as far as he is concerned, would use war, because he, Mao Tse-tung, points to the fact that after the First World War came the Soviet Union, after the Second World War came the expansion of communism to many more countries and approximately a billion people in the world, and after the third world war the whole world will be Communist. This is Mao Tse-tung's reasoning, reasoning which Khrushchev at the moment apparently - and we hopefully say - is not following. But, nevertheless, make no mistake; whether he says peaceful co-existence, peaceful competition, whatever he says, he is determined to conquer the world. He believes that communism should rule the world. This we know and, therefore, the line of American policy, of free world policy, is very clear. We do not want to conquer the world. We do not want to impose our system on anybody else. We have fought 3 wars in the last 50 years. We haven't had an acre of territory out of it. We haven't gotten an economic concession. We have fought these wars - for what. Only so that others might have what we enjoy - independence, the right of people to be free, the right of the world to live at peace. This is what America wants, but this is not what he wants. This is what our allies in the world want, but it is not what he wants. And, so, therefore, our policies begin with strength The first element of strength is military. Today we agree, and incidentally both candidates agree, that the United States is the strongest nation militarily in the world; but we cannot rest here. We cannot rest because the military situation changes. We cannot rest because what the Communists are doing is being stepped up. We cannot rest because the challenge which Mr. Khrushchev, himself, has put before us by his appearance at United Nations makes us recognize that the United States cannot afford to have anything but the best, cannot afford not only not to be first, but to be sure that Mr. Khrushchev and all his colleagues know that we're first, because we must never be in a position where the American President or the American Secretary of State goes to a conference and the man on the other side of the table says, "I'm looking down your throat." And, so, point one: Whether our President is Democratic or Republican, he must take whatever steps are necessary to maintain absolute superiority, small war, big war, whatever the case may be, in this area. And I can only say that on this instance and on this issue there should be no disagreement among Americans. I will also add that on this issue there must be no reluctance on the part of Americans to pay whatever is necessary. And if I should have the responsibility as President of the United States, I would certainly have no hesitation whatever to ask the American people to pay more as the situation demanded it so that we could be the guardians of peace and freedom, as we are today. We also need another kind of strength. We need an economic strength. In speaking of economic strength, again we begin with a situation which should make us rather, shall we say, happy, and which could make us complacent if we were alone in the world, if there was no race in which we were engaged. The United States today has a GNP which is over twice as great as that of the Soviet Union. Having seen the Soviet Union, having seen (1) their bureaucratic system in economics, having seen also the primitive actions that they are engaging in in the economic area, in most of them, as compared with ours, there is, in my opinion, no question about the present situation economically between the Soviet Union and the United States. But again we're not alone. As Mr. Khrushchev said when I was in Moscow, "Mr. Nixon, we're going to catch you." He said, "We're behind now, and we know it, but," he said, "Our system is better than yours. We're more determined than you are. You are simply living for the day when we are going to catch you, and we're going to catch you in 7 years, and then we're going to pass you, and when we go by," he says, "we'll wave and say, 'Come along, follow us; do as we do or you will fall hopelessly behind.'" Incidentally, I understand that one of those who attended the Moscow Fair wrote m the visitors' book, "Dear Mr. Khrushchev, when you pass the United States, please leave me off." But, in any event - whatever the visitor may have thought, and certainly there is something more to life, as I will shortly point out, than simply economic growth and military strength, something far more significant - the United States cannot even afford to think of his passing or catching us. We have got to maintain our present lead. We've got to increase it, and this means, as strong as our economy is, that we must take the steps, through whatever actions are necessary, to stimulate the American economy to an all - out effort in this race in which we are engaged. What kind of steps are those? Steps, for example, which will stimulate the creative energies of our people. In the tax field, for example, in programs which I have announced and will continue to announce during the course of the campaign. In education seeing that we develop the full potentials of all the students of this country. You're a very fortunate group, as I am sure you know. I was talking to Father Hesburgh, of Notre Dame, about 4 months ago when I was there to receive an award, which I think they were giving again because I was making a speech, but, anyway, when I was there and talking to Father Hesburgh, he told me an interesting thing. He said there were over 100 valedictorians who had applied for admission to Notre Dame for scholarships whom they were unable to admit because they didn't have enough scholarships. And I say to you that America cannot afford to waste the talents of a potential scientist or engineer or lawyer or teacher or leader in the religious field. We cannot afford to waste it, and that's why I have advanced a program in the field of higher education that will see that our young people and our young men and our young women as well who have the ability are not denied the opportunity to have the education you have because they did not have the money to go to school. This we must do. And, so, we could spell more things out, but you can see the attitude that we must have. Whether it's education or health, whether it's in the field of the development of the economy, the United States must move forward and we must see to it that the Soviet Union is not able to realize its boast of catching us or catching up with us economically. And then there's the third element of strength, a third element of strength that we can call diplomatic. This can be stated very simply. The United States must be firm, always, in its diplomacy. We must always be willing, as President Eisenhower has indicated, to go the extra mile, to negotiate for peace, to negotiate to reduce tensions, but we must never be allowed and we must never allow a situation to develop where we at the conference table pay the price of trading away our freedom or the freedom of our friends any place in the world in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else. Why? And, incidentally, putting it just as bluntly as I can, I have been asked sometimes: "Wouldn't it be a small price to pay for peace to give Mr. Khrushchev his way on Berlin? Wouldn't it be a small price to pay for peace to give Mao Tse-tung his way on Formosa?" And the answer is: If they were going to get peace, that might be one thing. I think the price would be too high, then, too; but let me say that anybody who even suggests that this kind of weakness, that this kind of agreement would lead to peace doesn't read history and doesn't know Mr. Khrushchev and doesn't know Mr. Mao Tse-tung. When you deal with a dictator and make a concession that he doesn't deserve, whenever you appease him, you don't serve the cause of peace. You serve the cause of surrender or war, and we're not going to do that in the United States. And I know that all Americans who read history, Democrat, Republican, and Independent alike, will know the truth of what I have said, and that we will continue to stand by our friends in Berlin, that we will continue not to write off those who want to be free behind the Iron Curtain, that we will continue to recognize the next element of strength, the element of strength that is the most important of all - moral and spiritual strength. I suppose that coming to Fordham that I would be expected to talk about moral and spiritual strength, and now the gentlemen of the press and many of those who might tend to think that here's the political gimmick would say, "Here it comes." I know, too, that there is a tendency in this world in which we live to say, "Look, we live in a tough world, in a hard world. Khrushchev is tough. Mao Tse-tung is tough. What do they respect? Power only. Military power. Economic power. And, therefore, we've got to meet them militarily and economically, and if we do that, we will have it made." My friends, we've got to meet them militarily and economically, as I have indicated. We've got to have a firm diplomacy, as I have indicated. But that isn't enough. That isn't worthy of America. It isn't worthy of our ideas, because that's all they have, and to those that say moral and spiritual strength, the strength of our ideals don't count, let me say they again must read history because the tyrants, the militarists, and the materialists for centuries have underestimated the power of moral and spiritual strength and they have been brought down by it and they will be brought down again by it if we stand for it. How do I know? I have seen it. I have seen it in countries around the world. I have seen it behind the Iron Curtain in the heart of the Urals, in Siberia. I have seen it in Poland. I remember a year ago coming into the streets of Warsaw on a Sunday afternoon with the government trying to discourage crowds, not even printing our itinerary, and I remember what happened. A quarter of a million people on the streets on that Sunday afternoon - they were enthusiastic, as you were enthusiastic, but it was more than that - throwing flowers into the cars, hundreds and hundreds of bouquets of them, as we traveled through the streets, shouting and cheering at the top of their voices, "Niech Zyje America - long live America." And then as the car was stopped in the middle of the city, time and time again, eight times, I recall, in all, a chance to look into their faces, some of them smiling and laughing, in joy, but over half of them, men and women, grown men and women, crying, with tears running down their cheeks. Now, why? We were militarily strong. That wasn't the reason. We were economically strong. That wasn't the reason. Khrushchev had been there a week before and he bragged of that kind of strength. No. The reason why the people of Poland received us as they did was because they knew that America from the time of its foundation has stood for more than military strength, more than economic strength; that we stood for great ideals that are much bigger than the United States, itself, ideals that we came into the world to preserve and to extend to all men - faith in God; belief in the dignity of men; belief that the rights of men come not from men, but from God and, therefore, cannot be taken away by men; belief, too, that all nations have a right to be independent, that all people have a right to be free. "Words," you say? "Debating," you say? Ah, let me tell you - the ideals for which America stands - these are what will be decisive in this struggle, and may you strengthen the ideals of America, because I can talk - as the man who introduced me so well indicated, we are talking - about national purpose, and I will talk about it, and my opponent has written and talked eloquently about it, but, my friends, the next President of the United States can talk about national purpose until he's blue in the face, and unless the moral and spiritual fiber of America is strong, it isn't going to make any difference, because our faith in our ideals, our belief in the great principles that have made America great - this comes from people. It comes from the homes, from the schools, from the churches of America.  And so, I say to all of the young people here, as you go out into the world, you will be lawyers and you will be doctors, and you will be teachers, and we want all of you to be successful, but remember: Strengthen America whenever you can by participation in the schools, in the churches, and in your own homes by reminding our people constantly of the mission - and we have it - and the destiny - and we have it - that America has in the world. And I come to that finally. What is the mission? What is the destiny? The easy thing for me to say would be that the destiny of America in this period of the sixties is to fight communism. That's part of it. It's part of it because communism threatens peace. It threatens freedom. It threatens all of the things that we believe in and, therefore, when you are confronted with an enemy you must fight him and defeat him. But simply to say we must fight communism in America, and in Berlin, and in Asia and Africa and Latin America, isn't enough. It isn't worthy of America. It isn't worthy of the traditions of this country, and I want to tell you why. Let's look at where the great battleground of the battle of ideas is taking place today. You know where it is. In Africa; in Asia; in Latin America; in the Near East. A billion people live in this part of the world, outside of Latin America, and what do we find? We find that the battle is going on. The Communists are there, and we certainly are letting these people know that. "Don't sell your birthright for a mess of pottage. Don't ask for progress at the cost of freedom." We tell them that. "Look, however bad you have it today, it will be worse if the Communists come in."  But, my friends, this isn't enough. This is too negative, and I say that what we have to do is to present the case in a different way. We've got to tell the world not simply why we're against communism, but why we are for freedom. Freedom must be what we talk about, and if I could explain it in just a word - what's going to happen in this part of the world? The one thing we're sure is going to happen is that they're not going to stay as they are.  I remember Prime Minister Nehru telling me 7 years ago when I was visiting with him in New Delhi that the per capita income in India was one-twentieth of what it was in the poorest section of the United States.  I have seen it in Indonesia riding with President Sukarno in the streets of Djakarta and through the countryside - terrible poverty. I have seen it also in Africa, and even in parts of Latin America, and the countries to the south.  Now, we also have some poverty in the United States, but let us recognize this: that in these newly developing countries they are awakening. They want progress. They must have it, and they aren't going to stay as they are, and simply if we come to these people and say, "Look, you must not accept communism. They offer you certain things that will produce progress, or promise progress, but they won't produce it and they will bring things that are worse. If we present the case that way, inevitably they're going to go the Communist way, because they have got to get away from what they are. They have to move forward. And, so, our answer must not be that we come to these people to fight communism, that we're going to use them as pawns in the great struggle between communism and freedom. Our answer is: If there were no communism in the world, we would care. Our answer is that Americans from the time of our foundation have cared when freedom has been denied any place in the world, that we have cared and had concern for people when people were hungry, when people were in misery, when people were ill clothed or ill housed. This is America at its best, and it is the heart of America that the people of the world must see. It is this heart of America that you must keep strong at home. It is this heart of America that those of us who represent you abroad must present. In other words, in this period of the sixties, rather than having as our objective only the negative one of fighting communism - and we will do that - it must be the positive one of waging the war on poverty and misery and disease all over the world; and if we do that the world will turn to progress with and through freedom, and they will give "No" to those who say, "Give us your freedom and we will give you progress." This is what we must do. Now, what does this have to do with you? What I have just talked about requires an attitude on the part of the U.S. people, our people, that is difficult for them to understand. Have you ever heard about foreign aid? You probably haven't heard anything good about it, and people say: "Why do we aid these people abroad? Why don't we aid our people at home?" And my answer is that you, you who have had the opportunity of an education here, you who know the world, must go into your communities and see that our people are not parochial and they are not provincial in their attitudes. You've got to see to it that the people of America realize what the world problems are, that we have responsibilities, that we live up to them and that we meet them. Just let me give you one other example and I will be through. I spoke of the billion people in the world. They want progress. They need education and learning. They need all kinds of technical assistance from us if they are to advance because simply to pour billions of dollars into these countries and not help them develop the trained personnel that they need along with it would be running it right down a rathole, and we must not do that. That's why we've got to step up our programs for exchange and technical assistance in all these other areas, so that people in the Congo, where there are only 12 graduates in the whole Congo, can have the opportunity to know how to run the country. These are responsibilities that we have, but there is one characteristic of these people that I mention that is common to all of them. They are different in religion, in custom, in food, in clothing, but they are alike in this respect: 95 percent of them are not white and, as I have said to every audience to which I have spoken in the South, as I have said to every audience to whom I have been speaking in the North, in all parts of this country, it is terribly difficult to talk one way abroad and to practice something else at home - and I say that all of you, going into your communities, must not be satisfied simply that you lead a good life, that your children are ones who have the equality of opportunity which is their birthright as Americans. I say that you have a peculiar responsibility to be concerned about your neighbor, because this problem of prejudice is not a southern problem alone. It's a northern problem, and a western problem, and it's also a midwestern problem. it exists all over the country. I say that if Americans needed anything to make them stand up on this issue and to do something about it, other than what they should have in their hearts - and we all have it, of course, the pure morality and justice of it - it would be this: We simply must make progress in this field because we must make sure that a man like Khrushchev who has enslaved millions, a man like Khrushchev who has slaughtered thousands in the streets of Budapest, will not again be able to come to this country and point the finger to the United States and say, "You are not practicing what you preach abroad." Let's do what we can, and you can help to do this as you go back to your communities, to right this situation. My time is up. I have been talking, as you know, about the leadership for the next 4 years. You have in your hands the leadership for the last half of the 20th century. In that last half of this century we will make the great decision in the world, and America's leadership will determine it. Arnold Toynbee, I think, has very well said that this last half of the 20th century can be the period in which we can realize a dream that men have had from the beginning of civilization, and have never been hoping that they could realize it, the dream that a time could come when all men could have enough to eat, when all people could have adequate shelter, when all could lead a decent life. We can do that now. We can do it because of the breakthroughs of our scientists and our engineers. We have this power in our hands, and we also have the power to destroy ourselves and the planet on which we live, and in your hands, in the kind of leadership you give to your communities, to your State and to your Nation, rests the verdict. I can only say that we, those of us who might be selected to lead this country in the next 4 years, hope that we can be worthy of your trust and that we can hand America on to you not only strong militarily and economically, but, above all, strong in its heart, strong in its mind, strong in its soul, because this will be decisive. If you can keep America strong this way, we will win this struggle. We will win it not because of our military strength or our strength materially, but we will win it because we're on the right side, the side of freedom, the side of justice, the side of faith in God. These are the ideals that count and there are the things for which you and I must always live. Thank you.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you, very much. Governor Rockefeller, Senator Keating, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this very great and exciting crowd here in Rockefeller Center. I've been trying to think how I could compare this crowd with others that I have seen in the course of the campaign. I have seen some which were wider. I have seen some which are as long; I have never seen any as tall as this crowd in New York here today. And, to all of you who have come to give us a part of your noon hour, to give us the chance to see such a great gathering of people in this historic and magnificent site, we thank you. We thank you because we have the opportunity through these few moments to do two things. To get a chance to hear and see one of the candidates for the Presidency. And I get a chance to see and talk to a great throng of people of my party, of the other party, and of those who classify themselves as independents. I want to say just three or four things that are, it seems to me, preeminent in this campaign at the outset. First, I've noted signs in the State of New York "Vote row A all the way." [Applause.] As a Republican, I am very proud of all of those who are my colleagues on this ticket. I want to say, however, that I urge this great audience whatever you are - Republicans or Democrats - that in evaluating the man who is to be the President of the United States you use a different standard. It has been our tradition in this country when we elect Presidents and Vice Presidents to think not just of the party, not just of the label. And I think that tradition is particularly important for us to follow this year. As Governor Rockefeller has so eloquently and concisely indicated, the issues confronting America and the world are of vital importance. The man that is elected this year not only must lead America toward progress for a better life at home, he has a responsibility to lead the whole free world. And the hopes of millions of people in this world for a better life, the hopes of millions of people for freedom, the hopes of millions of people behind the Iron Curtain for freedom may rest with us. And whoever is the next President will carry a great burden of tremendous responsibility, a responsibility you will give to him. And, so, today I say to you, first, as you judge me, as you judge what I have to say, don't vote simply the party line. I say to you that when we elect a President in this critical period of the '60's it is America that comes first, and the party second. And I present the case to you on that basis today. [Applause.] What does America need? What is it that you must look to in the next President of the United States? What are the qualifications he must have? Well, as Governor Rockefeller again has indicated, there is an issue that overrides the rest and to which all the rest are related. It is the issue of survival. You have seen the face of our opposition in all of its changing complexities, in its ruthlessness, in its toughness. You have seen it as I have seen it, in hand to hand combat, in effect. And it is good that Americans again have had an opportunity to see Mr. Khrushchev, to see him and his colleagues, because we must know what we're up against in the world. We must know if any of us have a tendency to be complacent about our defenses, or about our economy, or about our progress in civil rights, or any other area, that when you're confronted with this kind of competition, you can never be satisfied with what you've got, you've got to move forward, and move forward as fast as you can. And that's what we're going to do. [Applause.]  That's why whether it's in the field of defense where America must not think of the tax cut that we may want, but where we must think of what our defenses need to be, that the first priority must be to meet our responsibilities, not only to ourselves, but to the whole world, to see that America in its capacity to fight big war small war, and to meet any eventuality has an overwhelming superiority. And I pledge to you that whatever needs to be done in this area, whatever needs to be done, that I will ask the American people to do. Because we are the guardians of peace and freedom, and we must not let either ourselves down or our children down or the world down, and we will not in this field, or in any other. [Applause.] And, now, a subject that is closer to the site at which we are meeting. We also must move ahead, economically. This, of course, is an example of why America is the richest, the most productive, the most prosperous nation in the world today. This is an example, this site on which we meet, of why it is that we have at the present time an economy that is outproducing the Soviet Union by over 2 to 1. It is an example, too, of the way America can continue, one, to maintain the lead we've got. But more than that, increase the lead over Mr. Khrushchev. Let me tell you why this is necessary. We hear about the danger of war, and it is one that we must avoid. And we can avoid it by military strength, and diplomatic firmness, and by always strengthening the instruments of peace, like the United Nations. But we must remember, that our opponents in the world have said over and over again, particularly those represented by Mr. Khrushchev and his wing of the Communist movement, that they do not have to conquer the world by arms, that they are satisfied to do it by other means. And one of the means that he brags about is that he's going to catch the United States economically. Oh, I remember what he said to me in Moscow. "Mr. Nixon, I admit you're ahead of us now, but our system is better than yours, we're younger than you are, we're more vital than you are, and we're going to catch you in 7 years. And when we catch you, I'm going to wave goodbye, and say, 'Come along. Follow us and do as we do, or you're going to fall hopelessly behind."' That's what he says. And some of you smile, but, my friends, when you see it, when you see the fanaticism in his eyes, when you see the hard-driven Russian people as I have seen them. When you see in every factory, and on every billboard sign "Work for the Victory of Communism" you know that this challenge is one that Americans can never be complacent about, that we can't take lightly. We not only have to do as well as we have been doing in moving the American economy forward, we must find every way and every means whereby this economy of ours can increase its growth so that Mr. Khrushchev cannot meet his boast of catching the United States, or meet, or even close the gap which presently exists. And we stand for programs that will do this very thing. [Applause.] I would like to tell you that the answer is only in what Washington does. That is the tendency of our opponents. It is to say we will catch them, and we will stay ahead, because Washington will spend for this, this, this, and this. And we have programs in all these fields. But, my friends, I want to tell you what we do stand for. Washington has the responsibility to lead. Washington has the responsibility to stimulate and inspire. But above everything else, Washington must see to it in its policies that it never blunts, but always encourages what people do. Our advantage in this great struggle is not in our Government, but in our people. And this is the philosophy on which we talk today, and which we must always believe. [Applause.] I know it isn't fashionable to talk about individual and private enterprise. But what built America? What built this? Private enterprise, individual enterprise, and we are for programs that will inspire it, and stimulate it, and create it. [Applause.] But, then, to my friends here who say, "Leave us alone, and we'll do all these things," my answer is: "You can't be left alone." Because, again, in the field of education we cannot afford to waste the challenge of any mind, or any young man who might be a potential scientist, a potential engineer, a potential leader of this country ; and that's why I have a program in the field of education, a program which Governor Rockefeller and I have worked together on, which will see that every young man in this country who has the ability can get the higher education that he needs. Why? Because America needs him. Not because we're just doing a favor to him. That is why in the field of economic growth it is essential that we not only stand where we are, but that Government adapt policies in the field of taxation, policies that may not be popular politically, but policies that are absolutely essential to encourage investment, to encourage individual enterprise. And this we will do. And, I say that as far as the American people are concerned, while this is a kind of a program that is not one the demagogs will be pleased with, it is one that wilt bring to the people the increase in their progress, and the increase in jobs and job opportunities that every American wants. And that's the way to get it, and not through just sending it down to Washington to create the jobs through what Washington spends. [Applause.] There was another point that I would make. I make it here recognizing that most of the people in this great audience are those that have had rare opportunities. You have had the chance to go up in your communities, to go to school. You have not suffered from discrimination or prejudice, the great majority of you. And the reason I mention it to you, the reason that I think it's particularly appropriate to say it here is because I don't know of any man in this country who at the State level, and who also in his life, has done a more effective job, or one who has believed more deeply than Gov. Nelson Rockefeller in the field of creating equal opportunities for all of our people. [Applause.] I could say to you, too, that my two colleagues in the Senate, Ken Keating and Jack Javits, have done as much as any two men in the whole Congress of the United States in this field. And now I want to tell you why it's important. The easy thing, again, would be to say the obvious thing. It's important because politically there are a lot of people that vote that do not have equality of opportunity. But, my friends, this is not the reason we do this. We must see that every American has his equal chance. With the world series beginning today we may not all be able to hit home runs, but we're all entitled to our time at bat. We must see to it that the American people have that equal chance, one, because it's right; because the moral and spiritual ideals of this country require it; because America cannot be proud of itself, deep inside, and no American can ever feel right unless we practice what we preach as far as American ideals are concerned. There's a second reason. We need all the people in this country. Take our 14 million Negro citizens. We can't afford to waste their talents by giving them inadequate education. We can't afford to fail to develop the talents of a man like George Washington Carver who got an education the hard way, and then developed products which are still helping the South in which he grew up. We simply have to develop the talents of all of our people. And the only way we can do it is for all of us to work in our daily lives to see that our people have an equal chance for jobs, for housing, for all these things that spell equality of opportunity. And, in that connection, let me just say this other thing. The easy thing is to say, "Well, the State government's going to handle that. Why doesn't Keating and Javits pass a law to handle that? Why doesn't the President do that?" Or, "What's the matter with those stupid people down in the South? Why don't they do better in this?" My friends, let's be honest about it. This is not just a southern problem. It's a problem in my State of California. It's a problem in the State of New York. It's a problem all over America, and it's a problem for every individual American, and together we've got to move together to solve it. And I'm sure if we do, America will be a better place in which to live. And let's never forget that. [Applause.] There was another reason that I mentioned. I mentioned Mr. Khrushchev. He had many things to say a few days ago. One of those, I think, must have cut to the quick everyone who loved this country and who had faith in its ideals. This man who has enslaved millions, and I have seen them, this man who has slaughtered thousands in the streets of Budapest, and I have seen Hungarian refugees come across the border at Andau. This man comes to the United States, and what does he do? He says, "You deny the rights of man." And I say, if there were no other reason, we must deny to this man this argument in the struggle for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. We must be able to practice at home what we preach abroad, and we believe it, the dignity of all men, the right of all men to be free; these are things that we inherited from our fathers. And they are ones that we must pass on, ever increased, to our children as well. And, now, the last point that I would make is a very simple one. As I see this audience, as I think of what goes through your minds, I know that you realize the vital importance of this election. And I suppose you say "Mighty important to the fellow talking too. His whole life is involved." What happens to me, what happens to my wife does not matter in this election. What actually happens to our party does not matter. What happens to this country does. And, so, I say to you, again, consider what I say. Consider what our opponents say. And, then, make your decision for America. Make it on the basis of the men, their background, what they believe deep inside, and the kind of leadership they're able to provide. I can only say, in conclusion, this: I know this country; I have seen the world. I have faith in our people, and in our system. I have a determination and a dedication because of the challenge that I have seen face to face that America must move forward in all fronts. And I will give the leadership to the best of my ability that will provide that kind of movement. I, also, can say something about my running mate. It would be presumptuous for me to compare my experience with my opponent's, but I can certainly talk about his. And I can say that no man in the world today has had more experience, or could have done a better job fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge as our Ambassador to the United Nations. [Applause.] This is our case. We present to you our background. We present to you our faith in this country. We present to you the determination to lead America into a great new future in which men can live at peace with each other. In which nations can be independent. Which all people can be free. To this we dedicate ourselves, and we thank you, again, for the opportunity of meeting with you. [Applause.]
Governor Rockefeller, Senator Javits, Senator Keating, all of our distinguished guests here on the platform, and those of you who have paid my wife, Pat, and me a very special compliment by coming out and giving us a part of your noon hour: I know that you realize how deeply moved we are by this great crowd and also how deeply aware we are of the responsibility we have as I talk to you. I say a responsibility because, as has well been indicated in the remarks that have preceded mine, the decisions that we are making this November are decisions that must not be made on the basis of the labels we wear. They must be made on the basis of what men believe, on the basis of what they stand for; but, more than that, on the basis of what they can produce. There was very little question among Americans running for high office as to their desires for America. We want peace for our country. We want freedom for ourselves and the world. We want, in addition to that, a better life for our people. We want progress in schools and health and education, in civil rights, in many areas that I will touch upon today. But what a predicament it must put the voter in. As I look over this audience, I appreciate the fact that there are many of you who are not members of my party. I appreciate the fact that there are many of you who have come here in a great American tradition to hear someone that you may not agree with because you want to give him your day or his day in court, but more than that, you realize the tremendous importance of hearing both sides and then making the decision. Who is the most important person in this election this November? It isn't my opponent or me, or our Vice-Presidential running mates. It's you, because it's your combined judgment, of course, that will determine whether America has the leadership that it needs or whether it does not. And, so, it is to that point that I particularly talk today, and what a predicament, I say, it puts you in because you will hear me say, as I will today, you will hear me state the convictions and restate the ones that Nelson Rockefeller so eloquently stated a moment ago. You will hear my opponent state his convictions, and then the question which arises in your minds: Whom can you believe? Where should you go? And I say that answer you must find in the man, in his background. You must find it in what he has produced. You must find it not so much in what he says as in what he deeply believes deep inside, and, so, today I begin by telling you what I stand for, and then tell you why I have these beliefs. First, the most important responsibility of the man, the next President of the United States is to be sure that these young people we see here grow up in a life of peace and freedom. We have seen this responsibility, the threat that's presented to us by Mr. Khrushchev's attendance at the United Nations. I have seen at first hand - I have seen him tough, ruthless, unprincipled, never following the rules of the game as the leaders of the free world, like Mr. Nehru, Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Macmillan, and others who might follow them, but a man, therefore, who, since he follows rules entirely different, must be dealt with accordingly. And, so, it isn't enough to say simply we are for peace and for freedom. We must know how to deal with it. We must know how to handle the man who opposes peace, and opposes freedom. And that's why I tell you today that I ask the American people to support whatever we find is necessary in the field of defense, whatever increases may be necessary to be sure that America always maintains the position we have today, and you know what it is? We must be stronger militarily than any potential enemy. Not only must we be stronger, but he must know it, and the American people must be prepared to pay this price. It would be easier to say that it could not be paid. It would be easier to say that things are all right and will continue to be all right and we won't have to do more, but the world changes. The threat increases rather than gets less, and so I say to you that in this field we will keep America the strongest nation in the world, and that comes first. We will move this country along. We must also move this country economically. We must move it for international reasons. We must move it for human reasons, to which I will refer in a moment. Why is it so important that America not be satisfied with the fact that we're the most prosperous nation in the world today, that we're twice as productive as the Soviet Union? And here again I have seen in the Soviet Union what they are doing, signs on every building and every factory, in working for the victory of communism. I see how their people are being driven like slaves, unmercifully. To do what ? Catch up with the United States, pass the United States. I have heard Khrushchev say to me, "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now economically, but were moving faster than you are, and were going to catch you in 7 years, and when we catch you we're going to pass you by, and I'm going to wave and say 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or you'll fall hopelessly behind.' Let me tell you something: He will not catch us. He won't catch us in 7 years or 70 if we are true to our principles and get the most out of the American economy, and that means not only that America must move ahead, but no Americans must be left behind. This is the important thing. I tell you today that it is essential that we keep firm diplomacy. Oh, it would be much easier to tell you it would be a small price to pay for peace, to change our position on Berlin, to change our position in the Pacific, but, first of all, the price would be one that all of you who know freedom and love freedom would find too high ; but, beyond that, those who would even suggest that you could ever make a concession to a Communist without getting one in return and expect that this would lead to peace must read history. We have tried that with dictators, and it has never worked. We must always remember that in dealing with the enemies of peace, we must always be willing to negotiate, always go the extra mile, always do anything to reduce tensions, but never give them anything that is not accompanied by a concession on their part. Why? Because it feeds their ambition. It does not satisfy them. And so I say to you we will be firm in our diplomacy. We will be fair, but we will always remember the kind of men that we are dealing with. And then the third point I would make is this: America has to be strong in its heart and its soul, and this strength must come from our schools, from our homes, from our churches in this country, and, as far as this strength is concerned, it is important because the decisive factor in this struggle will be in the fight for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. Why is that important when we're thinking of power? Why is that important when we're thinking of a man like Khrushchev who thinks primarily in terms of military and economic strength? It is important for this reason: The tyrants, the materialists, the militarists have always underemphasized the power of ideals, and it is to that point that I particularly speak today. We have got to make American ideals a reality for all Americans so that we can lead the world to peace and freedom, and that is what we do through our campaign and through the leadership that we give. Now, here again I ask you: Put yourself in the position of the voter. He hears me say what I say. He hears me say, as I believe, that we need a new education program that will see that every young man and woman who has the ability to go to college is not denied it because of financial grounds. He will hear me say, as I have said, that every one of our older citizens must have the right to get health insurance and not be denied it because of lack of funds to do so, but must not be forced to have it against his will. He will hear me say, as I do say today, that we need new breakthroughs in science and activities on the part of the Federal Government which will encourage such breakthroughs and bring them apart. He will hear me say, as I do say, that we need policies that will stimulate our economy, so we can have more jobs and higher wages for the American people. How do I believe in these things? Why do I believe in them? And here you must look to the man. You must look to his background, education. I want to tell you about the biggest day in my life, the biggest thrill I ever got, except for the day, of course, that Pat said, "Yes. It wasn't the day I was nominated for President, but it was a day 26 years ago when I received the word from Duke University that I was getting a scholarship to go to law school. If I hadn't received that scholarship, I would probably be in California today, not certainly practicing law, but doing something perhaps of a very different nature, and only because I received it was I able to get an education; and, so, I feel, deep down inside, that no young man or woman in this country should be denied the opportunity to go to school, because there weren't enough schools to go around. And, so, I say on this you can believe that I mean what I say and that I will carry it out. Let's take the field of civil rights. Have you ever talked to a Negro mother as I have? Have you ever heard her tell you, try to explain to a child in the South? How do you explain that she can go into a store and buy a loaf of bread but can't sit at the counter and have a Coca-Cola? This makes you understand that it isn't enough just to pass laws; it isn't enough just to make speeches, but what you have to do is do what the Attorney General of the United States must do, not just a lot of promises and talk, but get in the leaders of chainstores and get them to agree to break down this barrier so that we can remove this block from the people of this country and our Nation. What about unemployment? How can you believe me when I say I will move this economy forward, that we will use all the power of this Government to fight unemployment, to fight recession; but, more than that, we're going to use it in a positive way to stimulate employment, to open new avenues for expansion of economy? How do you know? How can you believe me? I'll tell you why. Because I know what it means. I remember the little store that my father ran. I have seen people come into that store. I have seen the shame on the faces of the fathers who wanted to work and who couldn't get any, and I have seen their youngsters in school. I have seen them and I know the feeling they have had because their fathers couldn't work. Do you think for one moment I would tolerate never using the full power of this Government not to deal with this? And the answer is: I can tell you the promise. I make it. But you have to judge me on the basis of what I believe and my background. What about the issue of peace? And here again you must look to a man's background. I remember from the day that I was born perhaps, as early as frankly I can remember politics. I remember that in the year 1916 I was only three then, but I remember that years later my mother and my father used to argue. My father was not a Quaker. My mother was. She voted for Woodrow Wilson. My father, who was a strong Republican, never forgave her, but my mother had a concern, as the Quakers put it, for peace, a concern that she drilled into all of us, and, so, on this issue we feel deeply about peace, but also you feel deeply about freedom. Why do I feel about that? Because I know the hopes that people have in America. I'll tell you of an experience a year ago in Poland - the most certainly moving day of our travels abroad - a Sunday afternoon, no one else but the Government knew we were arriving, no caravan like we had today, and yet, you know, in a totalitarian country - just as it was in Nazi Germany, so it was in Poland - we found a quarter of a million people on the streets, and they were cheering and they were shouting and they were throwing bouquets into our cars. You know what they were saying? "Niech Zyje America" - "Long Live America." And you know, when the car stopped in the middle of Warsaw, they stopped and I looked into their faces. You know what they were doing? Some were smiling, but over half of these people, grown men and women, tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Not because we were strong militarily, not because we were strong economically, but because America stood for freedom. We stood for faith in God, in the rights of men, and believe that these rights belong not just to us, believe that we as Americans have a responsibility to carry them to the whole world. These things we believe. And so, in the field of civil rights and all these I can only say this: Judge us by our deeds, and I will make this one political comment today: I say this: I am proud of the part that Nelson Rockefeller and I played in writing the civil rights plank in our platform. It is a platform, incidentally, as to which I have done what my opponent has not done. In every Southern State I have been I have talked there. Now let me say this: Let me say this: We can talk, my friends. We can talk about leadership, the need for leadership and brave new leadership in the world, but, my friends, if you're going to lead on the issue of civil rights, you've got to talk on it in the place where it's a great problem, and not just in New York, as I talk about it here today. And I challenge my opponent to do that. I challenge him to do it as he did once in the primaries, but has failed to do since. This I say is a deed rather than a word. Because it isn't enough to write it in the platform. You have got to lead. And, incidentally, it isn't enough just to talk it in the South because it's a problem here. It's a problem in my State, in California. It's a problem with all of us. We've all got to move together so that Khrushchev cannot come to this country, this man who has enslaved millions and slaughtered thousands and point the finger to us and say, "You deny us rights." We're going to stop that, and with your help we will. One other test and I will be through. This is the first time I have spoken under those banners down there. May I say: I respect both of my opponents. I want to say one other thing. I want to say that I am proud of my party - and of my convention - that they took my recommendation and that other great issue of human rights we refuse to talk about out of both corners of our mouths. But we have in Cabot Lodge a man who shares my views and who will be working with me and not against me in working toward this great end. And, so, there it is. Do you want progress in civil rights? Do you want somebody who talks about it or do you want somebody who acts? In the last 7 years we've had more progress than we had in the previous 80. Do you want somebody who just talks about it in the North or somebody who's got the guts, frankly, to talk about it every place, as any American leader should talk about it? Do you want somebody who compromises his ticket by putting somebody on who will be sitting over the Senate and who will not make the rulings that I did that opened up this issue so that we could ever have a civil rights bill? Do you want that? I say that it's time that we have some frank talk on this, and I am glad to have the opportunity to speak to this audience here. Now, again I want to make one thing very clear. I have been speaking. I have been saying some things you agree with, maybe some things you disagree with. I simply want to conclude by saying again: I don't ask one Republican here to vote for me because I am a Republican. I ask everybody here in this decision: Think of America. Think of what the leadership needs. If you think Cabot Lodge and I, by experience and background and toughness, and also the ability to negotiate, are the men that can keep the peace without surrender, we deserve your vote. If you think we're the ones that can keep America's economy moving forward, we deserve your vote. If you think we're the ones that will produce on this great area of civil rights, then we deserve your vote. It is on that basis I ask it. If you think not, then we don't. And I say, however, don't judge it on the basis of what somebody tells you to vote. Don't judge it on the basis of somebody saying, "Go in; vote the party line," simply because your father did and your grandfather did. I say this is a time to vote for America, and I believe we stand for what America needs, and that is the basis on which we present our case to you. Thank you.
Well, this has been a very interesting day in many respects. I've had several firsts. It is the first time I ever spoke in Rockefeller Center, it's the first time I've had the opportunity to speak down in the garment district, it isn't the first time I've had the opportunity to speak before this group. It is the first time I've been introduced twice but it couldn't have been done by two nicer fellows. [Laughter and applause.] And as long as I can have that double whammy in introductions, I'm all for it. And may I say to have such gracious things said by the Governor - and he's been saying it all day, and to have such things also said by the good speaker which preceded me before I got here, but most of all to see you - to see you again, to get the chance to speak to you before we leave New York for our Philadelphia speech tonight, is indeed a great inspiration. I think, as Governor Rockefeller well indicated, what meetings like this do for a speaker is something you really can't imagine. You know, you're contagious, you're full of enthusiasm, and [applause]. There's only one trouble with the Italian-Americans. They've made great contributions, I realize, in music, they've made great contributions in business, they've made great contributions in law, and the like, they've made great contributions in politics, but there ought to be more in the Republican Party - that's the only trouble. [Applause.] Believe me, we're going to get more, I can tell you that. We're going to get more because we believe we have the programs that all Americans, clearly apart from what our backgrounds may be, that all Americans can and will support. I remember very well, incidentally, the opportunity that I bad to speak before this group in 1952. I was down at Mulberry Street as you may remember. I cannot be with you on Columbus Day this year but I want to say that as a substitute I'm sending a man who, I think, will need no introduction, but certainly a man that I am pleased to say something about now, and that you, I think, will agree with. I, of course - it would be presumptuous for me to say anything about the relative qualifications of the presidential candidates - that's for the people to decide, and I'm not going to stand before you and say this is a time for greatness and I'm a great man. [Applause.] I can say something about my running mate. He agrees with me on the great issues. He agrees with me on the great issue of human rights. He will work with me and not against me. He talks the same way all over the country that I talk on this issue, privately and publicly [applause] and I am also glad to say that while his opponent is also an able man and I give him that respect, I will say that no man in the world today has been better trained or could have done a better job and has had more experience or could have fought more courageously and effectively for the cause of peace and freedom than our candidate for Vice President, Cabot Lodge. [Applause.] So he will be with you on Columbus Day and I'm sure that he will bring you a message of great interest and I'm sure you will inspire him as you've inspired me by your presence today. Incidentally, the reason Pat isn't here, I think as it probably has been explained, is that she is now cutting a tape for the Dave Garroway show, so tune in on it. I never get up that early myself [Laughter.] Tune in on it. She's worth looking at and also hearing. [Applause.] Could I say a word, too, about our music today? Madame Rigal, I was going to suggest that I remember my first trip abroad. I was as a young Congressman. I had never been out of the United States before except across the border at Mexico in California, and I went as a freshman Congressman to Europe in 1947 as a member of the Herter committee - the committee you may recall was studying the needs of European nations for Marshall plan funds. Our present Secretary of State was chairman of the committee. He was then a Member of the House. And I just squeezed on it. They needed a westerner and they needed a new man, and I just happened to fit it. You know, that's how all these things happen. I wouldn't be here today unless I happened to come from the right place at the right time. [Laughter.] But anyway - so I got on this trip and I went to Europe. My assignment was the Mediterranean countries and particularly Italy and Greece. I spent a week in Greece; I spent 2 weeks in Italy. It was at a very difficult time in Italy. I know that the people in this group, most of you have perhaps not been there as recently as that because you have been here so long, but you have parents, and relatives, and friends, and your hearts also would be there in many respects, and I can tell you I never had a more interesting experience because, difficult as the times were - many people were hungry; I could see it; I traveled among them; many people certainly had much cause for discouragement - I have never as I visited those cities - Roma, Milano, Firenz - I have never been so inspired to see the hope on the faces of the people. And also the thing that impressed me - everybody in Italy sings - everybody, believe me. No wonder you produce [applause]. No wonder the great opera stars are those who have this wonderful background. And so for this contribution which is best known, and for others that are less well known but just as significant, be sure we are aware and be sure that I wanted to mention to you how deeply the Nation appreciates it, how deeply the American people appreciate the contribution which you have made. Now, in the time that I have today I could of course select a number of issues that would be of interest. If I did I would run you past 3 o'clock and I can't do that, so I'm going to have to talk perhaps more briefly than had been expected and I just want to hit a few highlights. In the first place, the importance of this election you know. It is so important that we must not base our decisions on any but the most important basic issues. We must not be diverted by any collateral issue. We must not be diverted by what might seem to be important basic issues to us but which really aren't. And I include, for example, party labels, that seem terribly important. You're Republicans here. That is how you got in. But I will say this, it isn't enough just to vote for a Republican for President because he happens to be of your party. Not for President. Not this year. It isn't enough for a Democrat to vote for a Democrat just because he's a Democrat. Not for President. Not this year. This is our theme. I do not say what my opponent says - vote Republican because I'm a Republican, that this is the party that counts. What counts today is not our party, but this country. And we want the best man for the country whether he's a Democrat or a Republican. And this is our theme throughout. [Applause.] Now, I'll have to admit I'm a little prejudiced on that, but on the other hand [laughter]. I do think, and I do want you to judge me, and I do want you to have your colleagues and friends and the undecided and others to whom you will be talking, to judge me and my running mate on the basis of that test - what does America need? What does it need in the sixties in the way of international leadership? In the way of national leadership? What does it need in the way of dealing with the issues in which most Americans are interested and concerned? I touched on some of them today. I will just hit two or three highlights now. First, above everything else we need leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. [Applause.] We need this because all the other things aren't going to matter unless we're around to enjoy them. And so, therefore, look at Cabot Lodge and his record and his background and experience. And look at mine - our record, background, and experience. Look what we stand for. Compare it with our opponent and then decide, and make the decision on that basis. Americans can do nothing less. The country calls for nothing less than that. And we say it because the decision we make for a President this year will determine not only the future of our country and our children but perhaps the future of the world. So that is point one. We say that on this particular issue we do have something to offer. We have been part of an administration for 7 years - an administration that has been pretty successful in dealing with this issue. Oh, there are things that have been wrong; yes. And our opponents have a right and a responsibility to point them out as they have. But on the other hand, while we're talking about the things that are wrong with this record, it is my right and responsibility to point out the things that are right, and nothing can obscure the fact that under Dwight Eisenhower we ended one war, we kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. [Applause.] And to those that say that the U.S. prestige is low, to those that say that we have failed here and there and are failing around the world at the present time, to Mr. Kennedy who said just a couple of days ago in upper New York something to this effect: "I am tired of reading in the newspaper what Premier Khrushchev is doing; I'm tired of reading in the paper what Premier Castro is doing; I want to read in the paper," he said, "what the President of the United States is doing." Well, my answer to that is if he'd quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing. [Applause.] No, he isn't making a fool of himself in the U.N., thank God. [Applause.] And President Eisenhower isn't trying to muscle into the Congo unilaterally to take over this newly independent country as Khrushchev is, and again, thank God for that. [Applause.] President Eisenhower isn't setting up a phony disarmament scheme as Khrushchev is. All those things make news. It looks as if he's doing things. But what are we doing? We're standing for what's right. Oh, it isn't as spectacular; no. It isn't as spectacular to work through the United Nations patiently negotiating to help this new country, the Congo, keep its independence, keep its freedom. That's what we've been doing and that's what we're going to continue to do. It isn't as spectacular as President Eisenhower has done to go before the U.N. and to lay it on the line for controlled disarmament - not phony disarmament - not where you simply have empty pledges, but a case where both sides will disarm. Because remember this: If we ever have disarmament where we disarm and the other side doesn't, that means that we increase the risk of war rather than reduce it, and we're not going to do that and we can be sure of that. [Applause.] Now, you gather that I'm proud of the record, but I'm not standing on it because a record is never something to stand on, it's something to build on, and this is particularly true in this age in which we live - true because we're faced with a ruthless, deadly threat. You've seen the face of it. You've seen it with Mr. Khrushchev on your television screen and you see the fanaticism, you see this man who knows no rules and follows none. And we need men who will be able to deal with him. I can only say that Cabot Lodge and I have had the experience of sitting across the conference table with him. And we've done pretty well up to this time and I think we can do pretty well in the future. [Applause and cheers.] I know there were some people who said when I came back from Moscow, they said, "Why did you get into debate with Mr. Khrushchev? Why have a debate in the kitchen?" Let me point out something. I'll tell you why I got into a debate with him. It wasn't my choosing. He was there as a guest of the American Exposition. I was there representing the President of the United States. And then he stood there and started to run down the United States. He said that we were warmongers; said that we had them ringed with bases; he attacked our economy; he attacked everything we stood for. I say no American could stand there and take that without answering back and standing up for the United States of America. [Applause.] Ah, but they said, "But, Mr. Nixon this isn't going to be decided by debating with him, it's going to be decided by power." Of course, it's going to be decided by power, but not only the power of your military which must be first in the world as I have said over and over again; not only by the power of your economy; but the power of your ideals. And anybody who thinks that talking, debating, as Cabot Lodge has done in the U.N., as we will continue to around the world, that this isn't going to be decisive just doesn't know what the world struggle is about. Of course we've got to stand up for our principles. Oh, I remember another occasion. I remember when I was speaking at the American Exposition. This was my turn to talk, and I was speaking about America - what it had done. I pointed out that here in this land, this so-called capitalist land as he described it - but capitalism altogether different from anything he had ever known or read about - and as I was speaking of that I remember that Mr. Khrushchev started to interrupt me. And I said, "Just a moment. I've got the floor." And I just want to point this out that in this whole world struggle in which we're engaged we must never underestimate the power of our ideals. And America must strengthen her ideals - strengthen her appeal around the world. Now let me get to something very current and to build on something Governor Rockefeller referred to earlier today. He referred to the visit of the Prime Minister of Nigeria. Why would anybody mention the Prime Minister of Nigeria to the Columbian League? Why don't I just talk about the interests of people who have Italian-American backgrounds? I'll tell you why. It's the responsibility of a leader not to talk about just the things that you may be interested in but to talk about America's responsibilities in the world. You, like myself, like Governor Rockefeller, we're interested in America and our whole position, and not just in what may be those particular issues that are closest to your hearts. Let's look at Nigeria for a moment. Why would we raise it now? This new country is going to have approximately 40 million people in it. It is tremendously rich. The British have prepared it - as the Congo was not prepared, unfortunately - for independence. We hope and we trust that it will be able to develop its independence. And I hope and I trust that the people of New York with all of the greatness of heart which they've always shown will give him a magnificent welcome here. I hope that they do it because [applause] - I want to tell you what happens to Africa, my friends, affects us in America. It affects us in Europe, the Middle East, in Asia. In other words, we live in a world now that is involved - is interdependent in every sense. We can never think of the world as simply being our own little group or our own little state, our own little community, our own big nation, and say just so things are good here, just so we're doing okay, we can forget the rest of the world. We are in a race for survival and this means militarily, economically, ideologically America must move forward. That's why we don't stand still, we have programs in all of these areas that will move America forward. Now, let's get back to Africa and what does it involve? Do you know what I would like to tell a group like this? You obviously are people that are immensely successful. You are obviously people that know what it means to get a 10-percent forgiveness on your income tax. [Applause and laughter.] Thank heaven you pay enough to appreciate it. And may I say in this connection, the easy thing would be to get up here and say, this foreign aid - it's time we started thinking of the United States. It's time we start thinking of building dams in California rather than helping to build them in India. It's time that - why do we worry about Nigeria, and the Congo, and India, and all the rest? Why can't I get up here and tell you, my friends, we've been pouring a lot of money down a rat hole? What we've got to do is to make America strong at home; that alone will do it - to build a lot more missiles; that alone will do it - to see that all these happen. We have to do those things, of course.  I'll tell you why. America can be the strongest nation that ever could be imagined. We could have them outdone 20 to 1 in terms of missiles and lose the world if we did not recognize where the battle is taking place right now. It's being fought - won and lost - in Africa, in Asia, in Latin America. And we've got to get in and fight and we've got to fight it better than we have been doing. And I'm going to tell you here today we're not going to be able to cut what we're doing in terms of technical assistance to these people, in terms of economic assistance, in terms of exchange, in terms of information. We're going to have to do more, and the American people have to hear it. It isn't a pleasant thing to hear, but it's the responsibility of a leader to tell you what you ought to hear rather than just the things you want to hear, and I'm sure that when the American people know what the challenge is, they know what they're confronted with, they are going to support doing what is right, and that is what we stand for in this campaign. [Applause.] Now, I'm not going to suggest to you, however, that I have a plan in which we're going to pour billions of dollars into Africa, Asia, and Latin America, and we can forget the whole situation and think it's going to work out. It isn't. That would be just as irresponsible as to send nothing abroad, because you cannot take these newly developing countries, give them tremendous amounts of money, and not at the same time prepare them with the leadership that knows how to run an economy, run a government, and this brings us again to our responsibility in the field of exchange, in the field of technical assistance, in the field of helping in education. If we are going to help these people with our loans and our grants, we doubly must help them in developing the ability to run the show in those countries. We have enough trouble here running 180 million people with a very advanced so-called democratic system - small "D" - we have this trouble. [Laughter.] But I can say this that on the other hand we find that in these other countries it is irresponsible and it is going to send them money without recognizing that we have to help them as well. So we need new approaches in these fields - approaches that I'm going to spell out in a major speech in Los Angeles next week - new approaches in these fields that will recognize America's traditional responsibility not just to stand for freedom for ourselves, not just to stand for the right of self-government and independence for ourselves, but to help others around the world to have these same things that we believe in. This is our mission. One other point that I would make that I think will be of interest to you is this: I have often been asked, "Why do we do these things? Why is it? What should our aim be?" And I emphasize to you today what I emphasized this morning at Fordham, it must not simply be the negative aim of fighting communism. That is a good enough reason because certainly these people in these countries would be worse off than they presently are if the Communists come in and take over. But I go back to Italy. In 1946, 1947, 1948, and 1949, when I was voting for, and Ken Keating and Jake Javits, when we were all voting for aid to the Marshall plan countries, it's true that the justification was fighting communism. It is also true that we did it because it was the right thing to do. Even if there had been no Communist threat, we would have been concerned about the plight of hundreds of thousands of children in Italy who didn't have enough to eat, of people who were homeless, of people who just wanted a chance to get on their feet. And when you go to Italy today and see the tremendous development there, it was a wonderful investment. It was true in France, it was true in England, and in all the countries we helped. And that is the last point that I make to you. When we talk about what we're going to do in this field of foreign assistance, we're helping the Nigerians, and we're helping the Indians, and the other people, remember, we do this not solely for the negative reason that we're trying to keep what we've got, that we're trying to keep communism from spreading in the world. We do it because we Americans traditionally have had a heart. We have a great humanitarian concern, and one of the reasons that we have developed this concern because of the contribution made by people that make up the mainstream of American life. Who are they? They came from all the countries of the world. Warmhearted Italians, people from Europe, from Asia, from Africa, these are Americans. And because America is the whole world, America will always have a feeling and a concern for misery and hunger and want in the whole world. It is this that we must get across, and if we get this across to the people of Asia and Africa and Latin America, that our concern for them is not simply because we're trying to save our own bacon, but because we really want to help them so that they can help themselves, that we want the whole world to progress with us. If they can see America at its best, you can be sure there will be no question about the outcome of this struggle. And it's that, that Cabot Lodge and I ask for the opportunity to serve you in. We believe that we can present that case of America at its best to the world. We hope that we can. And if you believe so, we ask for your support. We ask for you to spread it all through this great community here in New York, and if you do, we shall win and it will be a victory not just for our party, but for the Nation and the world. Thank you. [Applause.]
General Baker, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this great audience here in Convention Hall, I'm sure you must know how very moved Pat and I are by your very warm reception. We have been having some very exciting days in these past weeks and some record crowds in many places. I recall earlier this week when we were in Memphis, Tenn., we had 30,000 people standing in the rain at the noon hour listening to a speech. I recall when we were in western Pennsylvania where the rain was coming down in sheets and thousands of people were on the streets and also came out to our rallies. I recall just a few days ago when we went into Boston, not expecting much of a crowd, and there in Boston we had 250,000 people who came to welcome us. Earlier today we were in New York City. We had great crowds there. But I want to say this: That today in Philadelphia, on the streets and in this auditorium, we have the greatest crowd of the campaign, and we congratulate you - and, believe me, we need this crowd, every one of you. We like it because we consider Pennsylvania to be a key State. We must carry it, and with your help we will carry it this November. I am delighted that all over the State of Pennsylvania, by television, we are able to talk to the people of Pennsylvania tonight, and I am delighted, too, that on this platform are leaders of our party, as well as our candidates for the Congress, all of whom I am very proud to support, and I particularly am happy that here on the platform is my colleague in the U.S. Senate, Senator Hugh Scott, of the State of Pennsylvania. There are some more that ought to be mentioned, but if I do I will not be able to finish in the time allotted on television. So, I can only say: To all of you who have come out tonight, to all of you who are giving us your time on television, we express our deep appreciation and we want you to know that seeing a demonstration like this, that seeing such crowds as we did today coming into Philadelphia, make us realize the tremendous responsibility we have in this campaign and the tremendous responsibility that the next President of the United States will have to the people of this country - and it is to that point that I particularly want to address my opening remarks. In this crowd tonight I know are predominantly members of my own party. The easy thing for me to do tonight would be to say: "Since you're Republicans and I'm a Republican, I ask you to vote for me on that ground alone." I do not do that. I do not ask anybody here or anybody listening to television to vote simply on the basis of my party affiliation, if it happens to be yours. My opponent in a speech last week indicated that it was the party affiliation that counted. I tell you that when we elect a President of the United States, particularly when we elect one in this critical period of the history of this country, what must come first is not the label a man wears, not his party, but what's best for America, and it's on that basis I present the case to you. And, so, I ask all of you to judge me tonight, and in the balance of this campaign, on that test: What do you want for America? What does America demand of the man who will next be the President of this country? This is a stern test. It is one which I want you to put me to as well as my opponent, and in putting us to that test, might I suggest some of the issues, some of the things you must be thinking about, as you decide what your decision will be on November the 8th. In the first place, consider for a moment the things that you want, you as American citizens, in this great country of ours. I often think of this as I drive through the streets, as we did today, as I see young people and old, shouting and cheering, as I see men and women holding up their little children, one a 3-week-old baby, I noted, for example, as we just left the airport, holding them up, waving their hands, and then it makes me think : What do they want for these? What is my responsibility to them - not only to ourselves, but to our children and their future? And these are the things that I think Americans all are thinking about. You look at the future and you want for our children a better life than we have had. This doesn't mean that we aren't the most fortunate people on earth to be Americans and to live in this great country. It simply means that we're a go-ahead people, that we want America to move ahead, and as she moves ahead we want to leave no one behind - and this is what we stand for in this campaign. And, so, I say to you tonight: For these things, as America moves ahead, we stand. You want and we want better jobs for our people, at higher wages. We want security for their old age. We want health protection. We want better schools. We want progress in medical care. We want progress in all of those various areas that spell the development of a great country such as ours has experienced throughout the 175 years of its history. And, so, tonight, I can, in truth, tell you that in our platform and in the programs that I have announced and will announce, that we will stand for and that I do stand for, programs that I believe will bring the greatest progress that America has ever had, in job opportunities, in health, in education, in science, in all these fields. I tell you that, but you have a predicament because my opponent tells you that he, too, stands for these things, and I'm sure that he believes that he does, as I believe that I do. And, so, consider the predicament of the voter. What's he going to decide? How do you judge us? We say we are for these good things for the American people. How do you select between the two? And, so, I give you tonight some tests to apply. First, you must look at our record, and when you look at our record, I say that when you compare what this administration has done with what the Truman administration did before it, in whatever test you want to make - schools, jobs, housing, health - that we've got them licked, and that is one thing the American people want. I could give you statistics, but in every one of these areas we could point out where we have made more progress, built more schools, more hospitals, more highways, where jobs - as far as real wages are concerned - have been better in this administration than in its predecessor. And, so, on the record I say we have something to offer. Consider for a moment the record in the field of civil rights in which so many Americans are justly interested, and in which the whole Nation has an interest, an interest because it is essential, may I tell you, essential in this country, apart from the other very great reasons that we must stand firmly on this issue, that we deny to Mr. Khrushchev, a man who has enslaved millions and who has slaughtered thousands, the chance again to come to America and say, "You're denying rights to your people," as he did last week. And I say we will move forward in this field, and I know our program will move, as it has moved in these last 7 years. And here again I say that we're proud that we initiated in 1957 the first civil rights law in over 80 years and that we established a Civil Rights Commission, a Civil Rights Division in the Justice Department. As a matter of fact, we had more progress in 8 years than in 80 years preceding it. They talked a good game, but we've done a good game - and the American people know this. And the record shows that our opponents have failed to enact the program that President Eisenhower asked them to enact 3 years ago. They failed again this year. They failed again when they had an opportunity after their convention in the special session to act as President Eisenhower asked them to act. And so I say to you, the people of this country will judge us on our record, and I am also proud to say tonight that on this issue, as on other issues, my running mate, Cabot Lodge, will stand with me rather than against me and will work with me in this program. And I am proud to say that we have discussed this issue north, east, west, and south that in every one of the Southern States I have visited I have discussed it, because this is one of the essentials of American leadership - to lead the people in those fields where they must be led if America is to progress. And I would hasten to point out as well that my opponent has failed to do so except in one appearance in the South, in which he made only a fleeting reference, and I call upon him and his running mate to talk the same in the North and the East and the West and the South as Cabot Lodge and I are on this issue. And, so, I say on the record: Whatever test you want to apply, we have done a better job. But we don't just stand on a record. We're here to build on it. I say that we have a program that will produce more progress than even they will talk about. Why? First, because our philosophy is right, and theirs, I believe, is wrong insofar as the production of progress is concerned. They say that in order to get progress in any field the thing to do is to throw up our hands and to turn the problem over to the Federal Government to have a massive new Federal program, to weaken the States and to weaken the individual responsibility, and we say that the way to progress in this Nation is not that way, but through increasing responsibilities and opportunities for 180 million American citizens. Oh, I know - I have heard the question raised: "Mr. Nixon," some people have said, "you say you're for progress more than your opponents. You say your programs will produce more. But how can you say that when he says that his will cost more, that he will spend more money than you will?" And I'll give you a very simple answer. When he makes promises about the money he's going to spend in all these fields, remember, he isn't spending Jack's money, but your money, and the American people know that. And I say tonight the fact that we do have programs which can produce more by spending less of your money at the Federal level, that this is a recommendation for those programs, and not a reason to vote against them, because in all of these areas let us remember again that how America grows depends not simply on what the Federal Government does and spends, but on what all Americans do, the Federal Government, the State government, but most of all what free Americans are allowed and encouraged to do - and here again we see the secret of progress which we always work to improve and which unfortunately, their programs would blunt. And, so, whatever field you wish to choose, I say in these areas of progress we have the best case to present. But let me turn now to another concern, one that I have found is the one overriding issue of this campaign. It's the future of our young people in a very different way. We want better jobs, housing and health. All these things we want for our children; but, above everything else, we want them and we want ourselves to be around to enjoy the good life we have in this country. And, so, the most important test, the sternest test to which you must put the two candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency is this: Which of the two men can best lead the United States and the free world and keep the peace without surrender? And I tell you tonight - I tell you tonight - that I am proud of our ticket in this respect. I am proud of it not because I can speak of my own experience, because that would be presumptuous but I can certainly speak of my running mate's, and I'll say this: No man in the world today has had more experience and no one could have done a better job, in my opinion, of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than our candidate for Vice President, Henry Cabot Lodge. And we will work together, work together to strengthen the instruments of peace, like the United Nations and the Organization of American States. But there's one other thing you must know about us, which is vitally important: We know the man who threatens the peace of the world and his colleagues. We have sat across the conference table from them. We've had the opportunity to deal with them, and if I may say so, we've done a pretty good job of dealing with them in the past, and we'll do a pretty good job in the future. Oh, I know in the case of the record of this administration there's been a lot of criticism of it in the foreign policy area, and it's the responsibility of our opponents to criticize where they think it's wrong, but I say it isn't necessary to run America down to build her up, and I also point this out: I also point this out: I noted recently, for example, a statement of my opponent to this effect, that he made in upper New York State. He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me tell you something. If he would stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing. No. He hasn't been doing the spectacular things that Mr. Khrushchev is doing. He hasn't been making a fool of himself in the United Nations, thank God. No, he hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo unilaterally to take over that newly independent country. That's a very sensational thing. It makes news. It makes exciting reading. But President Eisenhower has done the right thing. He has seen that America has worked patiently with the United Nations to save the independence of this country rather than to destroy it - and this we can be proud of. And, looking to the future, what do we say we will do? We know the men with whom we are dealing. We will keep America, first, the strongest nation in the world militarily, because we're the guardians of peace, and the American people, I know, will pay whatever is necessary to maintain that position in the world. We will keep our economy growing so that Mr. Khrushchev is never able to realize his bet of attempting to catch the United States and pass us, and, believe me, he will never catch us in 7 or 70 years if we stay true to the principles that have made this country great. We will keep the diplomacy of this country firm, without being belligerent, always willing to go the extra mile in order to negotiate those differences that we have with the Soviet or anybody else, but never paying the price of freedom of ourselves or others in order to negotiate because that is not the road to peace. That is the road to surrender, to war, and we will avoid it. These are the things we will do. And, in addition to that, we will remain true - we will keep before the world - the tremendous ideals which the people of Philadelphia and of Pennsylvania know so much about, because this country started here in 1776, and, more important than our military strength, more important than our economic strength, is the strength of our ideals, and I pledge to you that Cabot Lodge and I will never forget that what will count in this struggle for the world will be our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of all men, our recognition that the rights that men have come not from men, but from God and, therefore, cannot be taken away from men. Why are these things important? Why are they important when you're dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev who is simply an atheistic materialist? I'll tell you why. Because from the time of our foundation in 1776, America was then weak militarily, weak economically, but was one of the strongest nations in the world because we stood for what was right - and I pledge to you we will continue to stand for what is right, and we will carry the spirit of Philadelphia to the world. Thank you.
The revised budget figures released at the White House remind US of the importance of responsible executive leadership in managing our Nation's finances. The prospect of a surplus in excess of $1 billion for reducing the huge public debt is heartening. Even so, the real budget story is this: the need for fiscal vigilance. Last January President Eisenhower sent the Congress a budget for the present fiscal year which proposed a surplus of $4.2 billion to be applied against our costly national debt. Congressional action this year both increased the spending the President asked for and cut the revenues he requested by a total of $2 billion. Corporation profits and taxpayments - although still at record levels - started running somewhat lower than had been expected, as our high-level economy became more competitive. Thus, the prospective surplus would have been completely used up had it not been for Presidential care and responsibility, plus less-than-anticipated expenditures for interest and a few other items. It is plain that if President Eisenhower and his administration had not stood firm on limiting Government expenditures to essentials, despite the irresponsible demands from some quarters for unlimited spending in an election year, your Government's report would show a discouraging prospective deficit instead of a healthy surplus. A case history of the necessity for care in these matters is found in actions taken by the Congress in the past 6 years under the leadership of my Opponent's followers. The Congress cut appropriations by $8.8 billion, but most of this, $5.8 billion, was cut from the Nation's defense and our vital mutual security programs. My opponent points to these cuts, while lavishingly promising vast new spending, but he ignores congressional action in other areas. These three Congresses in the last 6 years passed Federal programs calling for spending more than $32 billion above the President's recommendations, while at the same time turning down Presidential revenue requests amounting to $3.7 billion. So, while the three opposition Congresses in the last 6 years cut Federal appropriations by $8.8 billion, they authorized additional spending of $32 billion, withheld revenues amounting to $3.7 billion, thus giving a net addition to Federal costs of some $27 billion above President Eisenhower's recommendations. The opposition's yen to spend is highlighted in this campaign by the fact that my opponent's platform will cost the taxpayers a minimum of $10 billion a year more than mine. We can all be sure that in the coming years, Government at all levels in the United States will face increased demands for public services. In order that the essential demands may be met, the next President will have to set priorities wisely and not emotionally or rashly. A President, a party, an administration which has little respect for the taxpayers' dollars will surely repeat or worsen the record of the past 30 years, in which budget deficits have outnumbered budget surpluses by 4 to 1. On the other hand, a President, a party, an administration which is prudent with the people's money will serve as a dependable partner with the people in building a better, stronger, and richer nation.
I say to you tonight, based on this reception here, based on the reception we had last week in Akron and in the other cities that we visited in Ohio, that I see a great spirit here for our cause, a spirit that in this close election is going to see that Ohio is in our column on November 8. Now, when I say that, I don't say it's going to be easy. I don't say this is going to be a walkaway in this State or any other State. I say that it's going to be a close fight, but in a close fight you will find that those who work harder, those who fight harder for their positions, are the ones that win - and we're going to outwork and outfight our opponents in this campaign. I'll tell you why we're going to win. We are going to win because in Ohio, as in Tennessee that I visited earlier today, in my State of California and all over this Nation, we're not only going to get the votes of Republicans, but we're going to get support rom Independents, and we're going to get support from millions of Democrats who will not be deserting their party, but who will be joining ours because their party deserted them. And it's to that point that I particularly want to talk at the outset of my remarks. Why this tremendous interest in this campaign? Why is it that we find in State after State that not only Republicans, but Democrats and Independents by the thousands are joining our cause? I'll tell you the reason. The reason is that Americans realize that when we elect a President of the United States there is a test that is applied which is perhaps different from that applied to many other offices. It is not enough in electing a President to do as my opponent has suggested time and again - vote the party line. It is not enough to vote as your father and your grandfather did. I say that when we elect a President of the United States, particularly in this critical year, 1960, the American people are going to vote not their party but America - and we stand for what America needs in this campaign. I say tonight that our program adopted in Chicago - I say the program that I will discuss tonight and further in this campaign - is the program that deserves the support of people, regardless of party, and it is on that basis that I present it. The first point I wish to make is this: What is it that the American people want this year from their Government? When you ask that question you will get many answers, and I would like to put some of the questions and some of the answers, coming to the most important question last, but not underplaying any of those as far as their importance is concerned. When you think of what we want as far as this country is concerned, I think of the crowds I saw on the streets today. I saw many grownups; I saw many teenagers and college students and then I saw many parents, and then I saw something that must affect all candidates, as it does me. I saw many parents holding up little children, babies, holding them up, waving their hands, and I want to tell you what effect that has on me, and I am sure it would on any candidate. It makes you think of the great responsibility you have. It makes you think that it is the future of this country that we're talking about and voting about in this campaign. It makes you realize that what we must do is to build a better future for our children than we've had for ourselves - and that's what we stand for, and that's why we're getting support from the American people. I am proud tonight that I stand for programs under which America will progress, in which we will have more jobs at higher wages than we have had before. I am proud that I stand for programs in which we will improve our educational system, raise standards for our teachers and their salaries. I stand for programs, in addition, which will build the schools that America needs. We stand for programs which will provide for increased and better medical care for our citizens, and particularly for those who need it, who are in the older age brackets - and I will discuss that more a little later. We stand for progress in all of these fields, and certainly, as I stand here before you, I am proud to be a part of that platform and of that program. And now the question which, of course, must arise is: How does this differ from what the other side stands for? Aren't they for jobs and schools and housing and all the things that you have mentioned that spell progress? The answer is, of course, the goals that we Americans have, in the very general sense, are the same. We want a better life for our children than we want for ourselves, but the difference, I submit to you, is this: Our programs will work in producing progress and theirs won't. And I point first to the record. I've heard a lot and you've heard a lot about all the charges that this administration has been standing still, that we've had no progress, that it's time to get moving again, moving across new frontiers. Well, let me tell you this: Anybody who thinks America has been standing still for the last 8 years hasn't been traveling in America. He's been in some other country. Since my opponent has associated himself with Harry Truman, let me say we're glad to compare Harry Truman's record with Dwight Eisenhower's any time. We are glad to compare them. You have the 7½ Truman years and you have the 7½ Eisenhower years - and, my friends, take the test. Do you want schools? We built more than they did. Do you want hospitals? More hospitals than they built. Do you want better wages? A greater increase in wages, in real wages, than in their case. What about prices? Let's look at that one - and, boy, I'm glad to nail this right in the place where the distortion and the misstatement of fact were made by Senator Kennedy when he was here in Cleveland. Those of you who were here - and I assume there were some - may have noted that he said in Cleveland a couple of weeks ago that under this administration we had found that this administration had not had an effective program to deal with inflation, and the indication was that if we just elected him we would have one. Well, let me tell you: We welcome the opportunity to compare our record with the Truman administration, because in his administration we had the greatest inflation - 47 percent in 7 years. In this administration we've held it to one-fifth that - l0 percent. Mr. Kennedy's policies in that field are the same as Mr. Truman's, and I say we're not going back to those policies. We're going forward with ours in this field because, remember, if you want to inflate your money, if you want to raise your prices, you have our opponents to vote for; but if you want to continue to keep prices down, as our wages go up, then we offer the progress that America wants - and we are proud to stand on our record and to build on it. Why else do I say we'll produce where they won't? First, the record. Well, second, the philosophy - and by "the philosophy" I mean that our programs are programs that will bring more out of this great country of ours in the way of achievement than theirs will, and I'll tell you why very simply. Every time they have a problem, whether it's schools or housing or education, they immediately say: The Federal Government must solve it. We must have a massive Federal program to take over what the States are doing, to take over what the individuals are doing. What is our answer? We say that the way to progress in America is not to start with the Federal Government, but to start with 180 million individual Americans and build from them up to the Federal Government, and it is because our programs stimulate individual enterprise rather than blunt it - it's because our programs strengthen the States and put responsibility on them rather than take it away - it's because our programs have the Federal Government step in only when necessary and not to take over and not to supplant what the States or individuals can do - it's for that reason, with our teamwork, that we get so much more out of this economy than they ever, and we will continue to in the years ahead.  Let me give you an example, an example which has been worked out, incidentally, in cooperation with a very distinguished man who has served Ohio and the Nation well, Secretary Flemming from the State of Ohio. May I say as far as this example is concerned in the field of health, education and welfare we have seen remarkable progress, but in this specific area of health care for the aged I think the program that this administration stands for is one that will meet the problem. It will meet it honestly. It will do a better job, and I resent the attacks of our opponents when they say we are against health care for the aged and they're for it because, as I will tell you, we are for the only program that will do the job, and theirs won't do the job, and it's time that they be called on it. Look at the problem, and this is an indication of how we approach these problems. We have 16 million people in our country who are over 65. Now, they have a special problem with regard to health care. I think we will all recognize it. I remember my father in the last days he lived. He had excellent medical care because we're fortunate that the medical care under our system is the best in the world, but his medical bills that year were over $2,000, and I know what a difficult thing it was for him and my mother to pay those bills. That's why I feel deeply on this subject, deeply from that standpoint and deeply because I think in this country of ours we must find a way in which our older citizens can get the protection that they need when these disastrous diseases come upon them. So, what do we do? First of all, we have our old-age assistance program for the 2,400,000 people who are on that; and, second, we have a program which was adopted in the last Congress which would extend aid to those who are not on old-age assistance, but who do not have the resources to take care of these big medical bills; but then, third, we have another problem that remains unsolved. This is the one that is going to come before the next Congress. This is the one in which the American people must make a choice, and here we have two different attitudes, completely, diametrically opposed. Let me explain them. First, what people are we dealing with? Not the people on old-age assistance. Not the people who have to prove need, but people of moderate means who, because disaster or illness strikes them, are unable to take care of it. They need protection. They have been unable or have not purchased health insurance. What should we do? And this is the plan that we adopt. We say that we should have a program in which everybody of that age who wants health insurance should be able to get it, where everybody who ought to have it is encouraged to get it, but, third, where nobody who does not want it is forced to take it against his will - and we believe that is the American tradition. Now, look at this. This is a program where the Federal Government helps, but it's operated by the States, kept close to the people. We think that's right. It is a program where the Federal Government and the State governments help, but again which does not discourage, but encourages, individuals to get private health insurance if they want it. Now, that's one approach. What does my opponent suggest? He says for these 13 million people, that for 3 million of them who need it the most, no protection whatever. He says he will force everybody on social security, including the wealthy who don't need it, to have compulsory health insurance. So, his program would blunt private health insurance, as you can well see. Of course, you have the two programs - one compulsory, the other voluntary one completely Federal, the other close to the people through the States; one covering all the people who need it, the other leaving out the people, three million of them, who do need it. But let's take another test. If his program was so good, if it was one that people were for, let's see how much success he had with the Congress in getting it through. In the House of Representatives it came up before the committee there - Ways and Means. It was beaten, where he had a majority of 2 to 1, 17 to 8. So he struck out there. Then it came over to the Senate committee. There it was beaten, where he had a majority of Democrats, 2 to 1 again. Twelve to five they voted against his plan. He struck out there. And then this came up to the Senate, itself, and there, where there are twice as many Democrats as there are Republicans, they rejected it. He struck out again. So, what do we find? As far as performance on these glittering promises of his, he's been up three times; he struck out three times. I say: What do you do with a fellow like that? You don't put him in the clean-up spot. You put him on the bench. So, my conclusion here is this, and I will state it over and over again in this campaign: The American people don't want - and I believe it is my responsibility as a candidate to bring this home - they do not want, they must not have, a compulsory health insurance plan forced down their throats, and we will not allow it. Now, that is an example of the kind of approach that I believe indicates the difference in our philosophy. There's one other difference that I should mention. Many people have said to me: "Now, Mr. Nixon, how in the world can you say that you're more for progress in schools and health and all these things that Americans want than your opponent, when he says that he's going to spend more than you; his programs are going to cost a lot more? Doesn't that mean he's more for the people and for these programs than you are?" Now, let me ask you a little question here. He says he's going to spend more, and that's true - I concede that - about $10 billion a year more than our programs would cost; but, remember, it isn't Jack's money he's going to spend, but yours. That's the answer to that. I say that the American people in this campaign are going to look long and hard before they take one program that costs more and does less when they've got another program that does more and costs less. That's what we offer to the American people in this campaign. I think those in the hall will excuse me if I turn around and address this next remark to the people in the back. I want to say the people of Ohio have had some experience in what it means to have your taxes raised, and I say you do not want to vote for a man for President whose programs will cause them to be raised more at the Federal level. I submit to you: Take any program you want - housing, health, education - yes, we will not spend as much, but we will do more. We'll do more because we know what has made this country great. We know how to make it greater. We know how to get more out of this economy, and we're going to move forward and move into a great new future, but we can only move that way by building with sound principles and not with Rube Goldberg schemes, such as our opponents are constantly putting before us. I have one other issue to discuss. I said that I would save it until the last because it was the most important. You know what it is. What could be more important than a job, than good schools and good housing? What could be more important than these things? Being around to enjoy them. I say to you the sternest test that you must put both of the candidates for the Presidency to this year is this: Which of the two candidates is best qualified, by background, by experience and by temperament, to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? I can tell you that on this great issue again you have a record to look at. It's a record that hasn't solved all of our problems, and may I say we're going to continue to have problems in the field of foreign policy just so long as Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues are bent on conquering the world. The question is not whether you have problems, but it's how you handle them. I say in that connection that with all the criticism of President Eisenhower's administration, they can't take away the solid fact that under his leadership we got the United States out of one war; we've kept her out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. Yes, there are problems, problems like the one in Cuba that my opponent is discussing tonight without offering any solution for, and, incidentally, may I say, looking at that problem, I will have more to say about that at a later time, and he had better look to the record of his administration before he starts criticizing ours in that field. He talks about dictators, and I can only say that the number of dictators we inherited from the Truman administration is far greater than the number we have today in Latin America, and that's something he must remember. But some of you may say, "But, Mr. Nixon, we are worried about this business, about prestige. We hear Adlai Stevenson saying that our prestige is at an alltime low. We hear Mr. Kennedy saying our prestige is lower. We hear Harry Truman saying, all these other people," some of them responsible, some not, but be that as it may, whatever the case may be, I would only suggest that all of this criticism is summed up pretty much by Mr. Kennedy the other day when he said: "You know, I am tired," - I am quoting him exactly - he said, "I am tired of reading in the papers what Mr. Khrushchev is saying or doing. I am tired of reading in the papers what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the papers what the President of the United States is doing." That's what he said. Now, let me tell you something. If he would lust stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing. Now, I'll admit he hasn't done all the things Senator Kennedy wanted him to do. He, for example - I think the American people are grateful to him that he did not express regrets or apologize to Mr. Khrushchev for defending the United States against surprise attack. No, and he hasn't been making a fool of himself in the U.N. like Mr. Khrushchev has been making a fool of himself. And, as Frances Bolton will tell you, he hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo and take over that country as Mr. Khrushchev has. He has been doing it not in a spectacular way. It hasn't made such interesting reading, the kind that Mr. Kennedy apparently seems to enjoy, but, believe me, he's done the right thing - and that's stand with the United Nations in helping this country maintain its independence. And, so, I say to you this night: In this field you test us by our record, our experience and our program. And what do we stand for? What can you look to to us? Well, in a word, you have here in us two men who for 7½ years have sat in the Cabinet and the Security Council, who have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions made in that period. You have two men who have had the opportunity of meeting and knowing Mr. Khrushchev. Oh, I know they say we just debated with them, but, believe me, I think we did a pretty good job of it and we think we can do a pretty good job of it in the future. But what is most important is this: Cabot Lodge and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communists. We know them and, knowing them as we do, we can and will build a program that will meet and defeat them. First, we will keep this country the strongest in the world militarily. Second, we will move this country forward economically so that Mr. Khrushchev can never realize his boast of catching us or passing us. Third, we will keep the diplomacy of this country firm, but nonbelligerent. We will always go the extra mile, negotiating to reduce tensions. We will always attempt to build up and strengthen the United Nations and the other organizations, the instruments of peace, but, we will always recognize that, in dealing with men like Khrushchev, they don't follow the rules of the game. You do never make a concession to them without getting one in return. We think we know the men and we believe that we can give America the leadership that it needs to deal with them. But there is one other point I should make that is more important than all these, and that is that we know this great battle for the world is not going to be decided primarily in the military or the materialistic, economic sector, but it's going to be decided in the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. Why do I say that? Because I have been to 55 countries, on both sides of the Iron Curtain and, I know - I know - that the great strength America has in the world today is not its missiles and not the productivity and richness of its factories, but the fact that we're on the right side. We're on the side of freedom. We're on the side of justice. We're against the forces of atheism. When you hear anybody downgrade the ideals of this Nation or any other free nation, remember: The militarists throughout history have always underestimated the power of ideals. My friends, it is in that you can help. We've got to keep the moral and spiritual strength of this country strong, keep it firm, keep it clear, see that our young people know what it means to be an American, keep strong our faith in God, our belief in the rights of all men, our belief in the rights of equality of opportunity for all men. Let us, as I said today in a Southern State, and as I have said it in other Southern States, work together in this problem of prejudice so that Mr. Khrushchev, a man who has been responsible for enslaving millions, a man who has slaughtered thousands in Hungary, will not again be able to come to the United States and point the finger of prejudice at us. And I say to you tonight: I know the power of America's ideals. I have seen it in countries around the world. I saw it on the faces of 250,000 Poles shouting and cheering, "Long Live America," crying with tears running down their cheeks. Why? Because they knew what we stood for. Not just might, but that we stood for right. It is on that Cabot Lodge and I ask for your mandate in this election. We ask for the opportunity to lead America and the free world, to keep her ideals strong and to extend the ideals of freedom to all the world - and with your help we will do it. Thank you very much.
Of course, at an opportunity like this, with a great crowd with your time limited, you having to wait, it presents a great problem to the speaker, the candidate for the Presidency of the United States, because there are so many things you are interested in, so many things you would like to know my views on. So, I would like to, as quickly as I can, let you know what I think you ought to consider as you vote this November, the standards you should apply in determining which of the two candidates should be elected President. I would like you to know where I stand on the issues of greatest interest to you and to the American people, and then at the conclusion I'm going to leave to your judgment the decision that you should make. First, what should be the standard you apply in electing a President of the United States? I want to preface what I say at this point by saying I am proud to be on the platform here with our Republican candidates for the Congress and our other Republican candidates in the State of Tennessee. We have a fine group of candidates, and I am proud to pay my tribute to Howard Baker, to Carroll Reece and the others who are here with me. I support them all. I recommend them to you. I do not, however, stand before this great audience and say to you that as far as my candidacy is concerned that, if you're a Republican, you should vote for me because I'm a Republican. My opponent in a speech a few days ago said that the test that people should apply should be the party. I want to make it clear what test I believe should be applied. I think the tradition of America has been that when we elect a President of the United States we don't think of the party first; we think of the country first - and I say that what is best for America is what you want. I say that for another reason. I say it knowing that in this great audience, as was the case when I was in Memphis a few days ago, where the rain came down, and the audience still stayed - I want to say that, recognizing that in this audience are many Democrats as well as Republicans, if you were to apply the test of party certainly you could not, in good conscience, support the platform, the program, of the candidate your party selected this time, and I want to tell you why. If you will read that platform, if you will see what it stands for, if you will read the speeches of the man who has been nominated and his running mate, I can say here standing on ground which has been hallowed by Andrew Jackson that he would turn over in his grave if he thought that this party of Schlesinger, of Bowles, and Galbraith was the Democratic Party of which he was proud to be a member. And to all of the Democrats here who say: "Mr. Nixon, how can I desert my party? What am I going to say about party loyalty if we vote again as we did in 1952 and 1956 for the candidate of your party?" My answer is that is no problem for you because it was solved by the national leadership of the Democratic Party when in Los Angeles they deserted the great principles of Jackson, Jefferson, and Wilson and adopted principles so that, by deserting you, you now can come to us because we stand for the principles which many Democrats in this country still adhere to, we believe. Now, naturally, you would all expect me to say that because we want the votes of Republicans and we want the votes of independents and we want the votes of Democrats, but I want to tell you I think it can be proved and I want to prove it by discussing the issues and give you our position and theirs and then say for you to decide which represents the point of view that you have with regard to the leadership America needs. First of all, I stand and I am proud to stand for programs that would produce the greatest progress this Nation has ever had for programs that will build schools, for programs that will provide medical care for our older people, for programs that will provide for the exploration of our great resources in this country, for further development of the TVA and of our great projects in the West, which is essential if we're going to maintain the lead which we presently have economically over the man in the Kremlin, which Mr. Stahlman so eloquently referred to a few moments ago. In order to do all these things, we need to move forward in America; and I am proud that our program is one that will move America forward, that will provide progress for all of our people, better jobs, better housing better health, better schools. And now, course, what must come into your minds is this: Don't our opponents stand for that? What is significant about being for these things? The answer is, of course, that all Americans, Democrats and Republicans, want progress for our country, but here is where the difference comes in: In the first place, we have programs that will work and they have programs that won't - and the record proves it. My opponent, in speech after speech, has equated himself with Mr. Truman and me with his opponent in the campaign of 1948. Well, I say if he wants to be equated with Harry Truman let him take Harry Truman's record with him, because the American people don't want any part of Harry Truman. And I'll tell you what that record is. Do you want better schools? We built more schools than they did in 20 years. Do you want better hospitals and more? More hospitals built in the Eisenhower administration than were built in the Truman administration. Do you want better jobs? You find a greater increase in real wages in this administration than in the Truman administration. We have all this, and we have, in addition to that, held down the cost of living, and in the Truman administration the greatest inflation that we've ever seen. And so I say that when we find that our opponent here stands for the principles and the policies that America left behind in 1953 - I say the American people are not going to go hack to that. They want to build on and go forward with us into the future which we can present to the American people. But let me tell you the philosophical difference, and I think it is just as well to describe that difference in terms that I think may be of great interest to all of you. I just noted as I came in here that Mr. Kennedy, speaking from this same place on September 21, made this statement: "Today I stand on ground hallowed by a first citizen of Nashville, of Tennessee, and of America, Andrew Jackson. I come here as the standard bearer of the party which he helped to build." Here is what Andrew Jackson said in his second inaugural: "My countrymen will ever find me ready to exercise my constitutional powers in arresting measures which may directly or indirectly encroach upon the rights of the States or which may tend to consolidate all political power in the Central Government." And I say to you - I say to you - I am proud today to stand with Andrew Jackson and against Jack Kennedy who is against Andrew Jackson on that great principle, because in every program I have described what is their answer? They say turn it over to the Federal Government. They say weaken the States. They say weaken the responsibility for individuals. And what do you say? We say the way to progress in this country is not simply by turning over these programs to the Federal Government, but by the Federal Government doing what it needs to and always supplementing what individuals or the States cannot do, as for example, in a great project like TVA, but where the individual can do it he should be allowed to do it. Where the State can do it it should be allowed to do it. Let me put it another way: The way to progress in this country, my friends, is not through weakening the States, but strengthening the States. The way to progress in this country is not through weakening the rights and responsibilities of individuals, but by strengthening the opportunities for a hundred and eighty million free Americans. That's the difference in our policies and in our programs. Now, I must say there's another difference I should point out. I know there are those who will say, "Well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. How can you say your programs are going to produce more progress than his when his cost more than yours do?" And they do. They cost about $10 billion more when you cost them out; but let me tell you this: Who's going to pay for those programs? Remember, when anybody makes promises like this, when he makes these promises, it isn't Jack's money he's going to spend, but your money - and that's the answer to that. And I say to you that because we stand for progress that will spend money that is necessary, of your money, but that will save all that we can and leave it for you to spend, that the fact that our programs will produce more progress at less money, that this is something that recommends your support of those programs rather than opposing them. May I go on to another issue, an issue in which there will be disagreement in this audience with both of the party platforms. I refer to the issue of civil rights, and here again I want to say I have spoken on this issue in every State I have visited where it was a problem, as well as in the Northern States. I want to tell you why I have. I think it's the responsibility first of a candidate to talk the same North, East, West, and South, and be the same man throughout the country - and I intend to do that. In the second place, I do not talk here trying to preach to the people of the South. I went to school there, and I know that this is not just a southern problem - it's a western problem - and we've all got to work together to solve it so that all Americans can have equality of opportunity, and I congratulate the citizens of this State, the men of good will, for the progress you have made in this field. And may I just say one other thing: We had reference to Mr. Khrushchev a moment ago. This is a difficult and complex problem, but, my friends, let us work together as men and women of good will to solve it for many reasons, but if you need a very good one, let me give it to you. Let's get a solution so that we cannot have a man like Mr. Khrushchev, who has enslaved millions, and I have seen them, who has slaughtered thousands; and I have seen Hungarians come across the line, getting away from the tyranny of Khrushchev in Budapest - this enslaver of millions and slaughterer of thousands must not be able to come into the United States and point the finger at us and say, "You're the ones who are denying the rights of people." That's why we must make progress - and I am sure we will go forward together - on this and other issues, as I have indicated. And now, if I could turn to the most important issue of all, what could be more important than a good job, better schools, housing? Being around to enjoy them. And so, the most important test to which you must put me and my opponent is: Which of the two of us is better qualified by experience, judgment, and background, to keep the peace, keep it without surrender, and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great test of this election campaign. Now, I submit to you today - I submit to you - these matters to consider: First, our record. Now, there has been a lot of criticism of the President's record and this administration's record in the field of foreign policy; but, my friends, all the criticism in the world cannot take away or obscure the fact, and that is: We ended one war; we have kept this Nation out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and we want to keep it. But I know some of my friends may say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, though, what about this criticism that we hear that the United States has lost the initiative, that our prestige is at an alltime low, as Senator Kennedy and others have suggested? What about this?" I know some of you may have read he statement he made a couple of days ago to the effect, he said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." This is what Senator Kennedy was quoted to have said. Well, just let me say this, my friends: If he would stop talking a little while and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. He may not be doing some of the things that we would want him to do. He has not. apologized or expressed regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for attempting to defend the security of the United States. No, he isn't making a fool of himself in the United Nations either, as Mr. Khrushchev is. And also he isn't trying to muscle into the Congo and take it over unilaterally as Mr. Khrushchev is. But he has been standing for the right. He has been standing for peace, for real disarmament, for helping our friends abroad. All these things he has been standing for. And, my friends, I say that on this record we can develop a program which will continue to keep the peace, but which, beyond that, will extend freedom. It means keeping America militarily strong. It means keeping this Nation economically strong. It means keeping our diplomacy firm, but without being belligerent, and this is certainly something that is absolutely essential. In this case, I can only say that Cabot Lodge and I at least have had the experience of sitting down and talking with Mr. Khrushchev. They can call it debating, or whatever they want, but we've done a pretty good job talking with him, I think, and I think we'll do a pretty good job if you will give us the opportunity in the future. And, above all, I pledge to you that if you give us the opportunity to lead this country, we will keep before the world our major advantage and what America really stands for, and that is not our military strength, which is tremendously important, or our economic strength, but the strength of the things in which we believe. I have reason to feel this very deeply, because I have seen in countries abroad what it means when people are denied freedom. I have seen in countries abroad what it means when people do not have the opportunity to have independence for their nations, and I say to you that we in this country must remember that it is the strength of our ideals that will count in this struggle, and this must come from you as well as from the leaders, because our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of all men, our belief that the rights of men come not, from men, but from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away from men - these things - where do they come from? Not just from a President. They come from the people, and they are developed in the homes, in the schools, in the churches of America. And so I say to you: Strengthen the idealism of America. Make our young people proud of our country. Make patriotism fashionable in this country, as it should be. And I say to you that as you strengthen the ideals of America at home, those of us who represent America abroad will be able to lead this country, to lead it to peace without surrender, but, more than that, we will be able to continue to be the hope of all the world for men who want to be free. That, my friends, is the case as I want to present it today; and I say to you: If you believe that Cabot Lodge and I can provide the leadership that America needs in this critical period, remember, this is probably the most important decision or election you are going to participate in. Go out and make it important to you. Your jobs, the prices of the things you buy, but, most of all, your survival depends upon the leadership we get. If you believe ours is the leadership we need, let the people of Tennessee, Republican and Democrat and Independent, do as they did in 1952 and 1956 - support our candidacy. Why? Because you believe that we are the men who can do the job for America, and that is what we pledge to you. Thank you.
I want to say particularly to the young people who are here that, as you hear me mention these candidates for State office and the Congress and the like, often in presidential campaigns people can get very excited about the Presidency, but they forget about the campaigns for the assembly, the State assembly, the State senate and the Congress and the like, and you must remember, all of us, that in order to have good government we must have it up and down the line, and that the races at these other levels are just as important, and I commend to all of you, as you move on into adult life, not only interest in the big contest for the Presidency, but also interest in these contests as well. Now, I'd like to begin my remarks today by indicating to this audience the test that I think you should apply in selecting a man who should be President of the United States. Those of you who heard the television debate that Senator Kennedy and I had last night heard a very real clash of opinion on this point. He said, in effect, that in electing a President the primary consideration should be: What is the man's party? I said in electing a President that what the American people should put first is not the party, but the country, that America must come first. Now, I am proud of my party. I am proud of the part that it has played in giving government to this State and to the Nation, but I say that when we are electing a man who not only is trying to be President of the United States, but who is going to lead the whole free world, we have to get the best man that both parties can produce. That's been our tradition. Those of you who are students at the present time, if you will read American history, you'll find that we have had some great Presidents who have been Republicans and some who have been Democrats. The important thing is that the people, when they elect a President, must have a standard of what will be best for America and it's on that basis that I present our ticket to this audience here in Wisconsin today. What is best for America? Don't vote just as your fathers did, as your grandfathers did, or because somebody has a label that you have. Look beyond the label. Look to where the man stands. Look to his whole background, his whole life, and see if this is the kind of leadership that America needs. Now, that's the first test. Let's go now to the test that you should apply and what you want from your Government in Washington, and I think that's pretty much the same for all of us. To begin with, we want a government under which this country can make progress, and that means progress in all fields. I remember my father always used to say to me when we were growing up, to me and my four brothers, that he didn't want to go back to the good old days, which he remembered were not too particularly good from his standpoint, or others as well in that period - he wasn't satisfied with the present - but that in America we always look to the future. We want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves. And, so, today I think the first test you must put to the presidential candidate is, Are their policies the ones that will move America forward? Move her in what way? So that the American economy will grow and prosper, get jobs, higher wages for our people; so that our schools and our school system can improve in quality; so that our teachers can be better paid; so that our standards can be raised; so that we will have adequate classrooms, better education. We want better health care. All of these things - health, education, housing, jobs - which spell progress, we want for America, and I tell you today that in these fields I stand for programs that I believe will produce the greatest progress that America has ever had, a program that will expand our economy and create more jobs - not Government jobs, but jobs in private industry, which people want; programs which will build more schools and release funds so that we can raise the salaries of our teachers, as they should be raised; programs in the field of medical care for the aged, for example, which will provide that every person over 65 who wants health insurance can get it; that everyone who ought to have it is encouraged to get it, but that no one who does not want it is forced to get it against his will, because that is the American principle. I tell you today that I have a farm program - I'm going to discuss it in just a few minutes - a farm program that I think will move forward in this field and that will provide prosperity on the farm, and the kind of program that American farmers can and will support. Of course, when I say all these things, I know that this leaves the voter in somewhat of a predicament, because my opponent will tell you just the opposite. He'll say I'm against all these things and he's for them, that his programs are the ones that are going to produce the housing and the better medical care and the education and the jobs and the farm program and everything that we want. So, this is the predicament of the voters, the thoughtful voter, who says, "I'm not going to just vote the party label, I'm not going to vote as somebody else told me to vote. I'm going to vote in terms of what's best for America." The predicament that he's confronted with, then, is one in which he must choose between the two. Now, how do you choose? Well, first, you've got to determine the qualifications of the candidates in terms of the record, and on the record, incidentally, I think we have a record here which absolutely proves that our programs will produce progress where theirs won't, because, whether it's in the case of more schools, better housing, whether it's in improved medical care, anything you want to take, you will find we have made more progress in these 7 years than was made in the 7 previous years. So, the record must be examined. The second point you must examine is the philosophy, the philosophy of the candidate as he attempts to solve these problems, and I want to tell you the difference in our approach. Our opponent says that the way to get progress in all these fields is to turn the problem over to the Federal Government, set up a huge Government agency, finance it with tremendous amounts of the people's money, weaken the State responsibility, weaken the responsibility of the individual, that Washington will do the job. I'll tell you what my approach is. We start at exactly the other level. We don't start with the Federal Government. We start where the real power is in America, and that is with 180 million individual free Americans. Then, we say: How can we encourage individuals to produce more? And, then, where the individual can't do the job, the State should step in; where the State can't do it, the Federal Government; but by drawing on all the energy of the States, the individuals, and the Federal Government, we believe we will produce more progress than they will. This is the second point you must have in mind. The third point I think is one all of you will understand, particularly in this State where this is somewhat of an issue. I was talking to Phil Kuehn on the way out about the issues in the State election and he indicated that he had somewhat on a State level what we have on a national level, where here the promises made by the opposition are for pie in the sky, where the promises that are made on our side will produce the progress that the people want. Let me put it another way. As I was riding into the city, not here, but in Philadelphia, recently, where the caravan was stopped by a bunch of school children, and one boy about 12 years old ran up to the car, and he said, "I'll tell you, will you make a promise, Mr. Nixon?" I said, "What is it?" He said, "Will you promise us you will give us a 4-day week for school?" I could have said, "Yes, we'll give you that," and he would have liked me for it, but it wouldn't have been good for him and his mother would probably have hated me for it; be that as it may, the point is this shows you the point I am trying to make that what we are talking about here is that when you hear promises made, promises made for huge spending programs and the like, remember this: that the bill is going to be paid by whom? It's not going to be paid by me. It isn't going to be Jack's money; but it's going to be your money that's going to have to pay for all these programs, and I say the American people, therefore, are going to take a hard look at the programs that will cost billions of dollars more, and I say today that, as far as those programs are concerned, offered by our opponents, they will cost billions more; they will require a rise in our taxes; they will require a rise in our prices, or both, and it is time that the American people know what they are faced with. How do our programs differ? We produce the progress. We will not require the same amount of money. Why? Because we tap, as I say again, the real power of America, the individual enterprise, which has been responsible for America's growth and its greatness. Let me turn to the farm program, if I can, because here we have a very good example of the difference in approach between our two candidates for the Presidency and for the Vice Presidency. First, my opponent's program. If you followed it, and I hope there are farmers in this audience, and that those who are not farmers will pass the word to farmers, you will find that he has promised what he has called full parity of income. Now, that sounds very good. Full parity of income. Now, how's he going to do that? Well, he says that the prices under his plan could be computed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, by the nonpolitical career men there. So, we've had this done, and these figures have been made public. Now, how is he going to get this full parity of income? That sounds very good to the farmers. What he would do - and here's the catch - he's going to place marketing controls over every farm commodity - that's about 250 of them - under what he calls supply management. And what does this mean? This means that the farmer is given full parity income, as far as price is concerned, but as far as production is concerned, a drastic cutback in production. In other words, it's a complete blueprint for planned scarcity. Now, overall agricultural marketings would have to go down by about 20 percent. Now, what would this plan do? Hog farmers, for example, would have to cut their marketings by about 25 percent. Cattle farmers would have to cut theirs by about 15 percent. Each farmer would have to get a marketing quota, based on his past history of marketings, and it would be illegal for him to sell any hogs or cattle where he had no marketing certificate to cover the quantity involved. Now, in view of the price incentives, there would be black marketing; there would be farm slaughtering, and all the evils, in my opinion, of the old OPA days, and we can be sure because consumers would have, under this scarcity program, substantially less meat than they have and did have under rationing. And, of course - and here again is the catch that the farmers must watch for - there have to be stiff controls, not only on the hog farmer, the cattle farmer, but on the dairy producers, of which there are some in this State. I should also point out that those producers who exceeded their quotas would have to have penalties and fines, and, remember this: A farmer's son, in order to go into dairying can do so only if he inherited the right or bought it from somebody else. Now, that doesn't sound like the United States of America to me, and I don't think the American people want that kind of program on the farms. In addition, in order to put this program through, it would drive a million farmers and farmworkers off the farm. It would dry up a million nonfarm jobs, which depend upon farming. We would have rural towns that would be heavily hit because of these cuts. Ghost towns would multiply. Livestock, poultry, fruit, vegetables, and other products, now free, would all be put under Government control, and, as far as the consumers were concerned, food prices would go up 25 percent, and that, of course, would fall most heavily upon the lowest income citizens who spend the largest part of their income for food. In farm areas, in other words, freedom would disappear. The farmer would be made into - what? Frankly, into a Government servant, being doled out a fixed return on a fixed amount of production. Now, what is the farmer being asked to do, in other words? He has made a glittering promise here. We're going to give you full parity of income. But what's the price? The price is: Cut his acreage; in essence, really, to cut his real income in the end, but what he is doing is selling his birthright of freedom for a mess of pottage - and I say it is the worst mess concocted by irresponsible vote-seeking politicians in the history of this country. Now, if any of you have any doubt about it, I don't know whether you noticed this or not, but even the former Secretary of Agriculture, who certainly couldn't be classified as being a conservative, said the other day that he and President Roosevelt talked over this very same income parity scheme 27 years ago. You know what they concluded? They turned it down. Why? Because it would require the licensing of every farm, every field, and every handler of farm products. He went on to say that my opponent's farm program would require stricter controls than they have in most Communist countries. So, what is it then that he's trying to do here? He offers the complete destruction of the way of life that our farmers have today. He offers some 50,000 new Federal inspectors, overseeing the farmers' every move, with no prospect other than fines and penalties of all sorts multiplying, and the possibility even of jail sentences looming in the background to make the harsh control system work, because it won't work any other way. He offers Government controls of the severest kind over crops that are now free. All these things are offered by my opponent in his program. He offers to throw 2 million people out of work. He offers to sky-rocket food costs. He offers inflation throughout the economy. He's going to cut production back so far that food supplies will become scarce, and he offers to make certain that America is second rate by making Mr. Khrushchev's dream come true of passing America in agricultural production. In sum, what he offers is a program of retreat, of iron regimentation. He would declare liberty surplus in rural America, and I say that this program alone, this one alone, would impose such a disastrous and repugnant program upon the farm families of America that it is justification for his being defeated for the Presidency of the United States. Now, let's take a look at what we can do, what we can do about this farm problem and solve it. I have announced a new farm program, one that will move into this area not on the basis of managed scarcity, but on the basis of dynamic abundance, a program that is good for farmers and good for America as well. I advocated it in two speeches, as you may recall; one in Iowa, the other one in South Dakota, and it is a program that is designed to make an all-out attack on our farm surpluses. It's based on the fundamental principle that our ability to produce more than we consume should not be considered a liability, as they seem to consider it, but it should be treated as a tremendous national asset. Now, just in a nutshell, what would we do? We would put our food surpluses to use. We would put them to use, first in the great struggle in which we're engaged in the world. We're using a great deal now, but I have advocated new programs that would tremendously expand the amount of these surpluses that can be used for foreign policy purposes. Second, we would make extensive use of payments in kind, from existing surplus stocks in retiring acres that now produce the surplus, and, next, I propose that we set aside enough of the surplus to constitute a strategic food reserve for Americans in case of enemy attack. Then, as part of this new program, I recommend converting excess grain stocks into protein foods, mainly meat products, for distribution outside of commercial channels overseas and also to supplement the diets of the needy here at home. This is what I call Operation Consume. What will it do? It will use the surpluses as an asset. It will get the surpluses off the back of the farmer. By getting the surpluses off the back of the farmer, that means that the price-depressing surpluses will then be removed and the farmer will have his income move up accordingly. "But," you ask, "what are you going to do when you get rid of them?" And there we have the second part of the program. We have Operation Safeguard. Here we must have a substantial increase in our conservation reserve, but administered in a way to achieve a real impact on production; but preventing the concentrating kind of land retirement that creates ghost towns. To strengthen farm income during this temporary period when we are getting the surpluses off the farmers' backs, we will have a favorable payments-in-kind system. We will use the surplus to remove the surplus. In this connection, I support my party's farm platform in calling for a reorganization of the Commodity Credit Corporation's inventory management operations to reduce competition with the marketings of farmers, and, moreover, farmers would have the full encouragement and assistance in their efforts to negotiate for markets and prices. Once farm products are thus strengthened by a return to normal inventories and by these other steps, we could then go to a long-term price-support system at levels based on an average of market prices over the immediately preceding crop years; but we will not go to that until we do get rid of the surplus problem. We've also called for other steps which would move on the farm front and effectively deal with the problems in which farmers are interested. Now, to carry out these programs, I believe that the next Secretary of Agriculture should come from the Midwest. Now, why? He should come from the Midwest because it is the major producer of surplus farm products. It has the greatest stake in finding a solution to the problem, and the next Secretary of Agriculture, coming from the Midwest, can and, therefore, should be a vigorous, articulate advocate of the problems of the farmers of the Midwest and of the whole Nation - and that's the kind of a man we will have. The end result of our program, then, will be a more prosperous and freer agriculture. It is a program which has goals that are consistent with America's goals, goals in which farm people deeply believe, goals in which they would have the opportunity to develop the program themselves. It would be a program of abundance rather than scarcity, a program under which our farmers would make their own decisions, instead of being dictated to by Federal bureaucrats. And, so, here is an example - The farmers of America, they have a problem, a real problem. They're not sharing, getting their fair share, of America's increased prosperity. On the one side, they're offered a program which sounds good, but when you look at the price tag, not only in terms of dollars, but particularly in terms of what it would do to their freedoms, what it would do to their production, you find that this program is one that is completely foreign to what farmers want in this country. On our side we have a program which will move forward dynamically, one which recognizes the problems, but one which will move forward in the traditional way that Americans want problems solved, not by making this program a permanent Government program, but one which will be aimed at helping the farmers help themselves in solving this farm problem - and this is what I think American farmers will support as they have an opportunity to see the difference between the two farm programs. And, now, if I could turn, finally, to one point which I should emphasize is more important than the ones I have been discussing. I suppose the farmer in this audience might well say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, don't tell me there's anything more important to me than solving the farm problem," and a teacher might say, "Don't tell me there's anything more important to us than getting better schools," and certainly the wage earner might say, "Is there anything more important than having higher wages?" And the answer is: Yes; that's being around to enjoy all these good things. And I say to you that the main test that we must put to the two candidates for the Presidency in this campaign, the main test that you must apply to both of us, is this: Which of the two candidates can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world in the years ahead? So, let's look at the record here. First, we've got to look at the record of the candidates, themselves. I cannot say anything properly about my qualifications as compared with my opponent - that's for you to determine - but I can say something about my vice presidential running mate, and I would say that there is no man in the world who has had more experience or who could have done a better job than Henry Cabot Lodge, our vice presidential candidate standing for the cause of peace and freedom. Now, why is that important? Because the character of the Vice Presidency has changed. Because he and I will work together in strengthening the instruments of peace, strengthening them so that we can also strengthen the cause of freedom throughout the world. What about the record? Well, you've heard a lot that's wrong about the record. Senator Kennedy in his debate last night was again repeating the charges about our prestige and the like and the things that were wrong. Well, let me say this: All of the criticism in the world cannot obscure the truth that the American people know, and it is this: That they will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for the fact that he ended one war and kept this Nation out of other wars and that we do have peace without surrender today. What about the future? How are we going to move into the future? And my answer is: We can't be satisfied with what we are doing now, not satisfied, because we are confronted, I can assure you, with a deadly enemy. I know the men in the Kremlin, as does Cabot Lodge, and, knowing them as we do, we will see to it that America continues to be the strongest nation in the world militarily. We will see to it that this country will continue to move forward economically. We will also see to it that this country's diplomacy will be firm, without being belligerent. What do I mean by that? I mean that we must never engage in a war of words, because when we engage in a war of words, we only heat up the international atmosphere to the point of a nuclear explosion. But, on the other hand, while we will never be belligerent, whenever our country comes under attack in the international forums, whenever, for example, as Mr. Khrushchev did when I was in Moscow, he attacked the United States and our system, it is our responsibility to stand up to him and stand up for the United States of America and for what we believe in. That's why I completely disagreed with Senator Kennedy last night when he said that President Eisenhower could have apologized to Mr. Khrushchev for the U-2 flights. Why was that such a foolish statement on his part? I'll tell you why. It shows a complete lack of understanding of what kind of a man Khrushchev is. When you give a concession to a Communist, without getting one in return he doesn't like you better for it. He doesn't give you something in return for it. He gets contempt for you, and he stomps on you, and, may I say, that if I have the opportunity to lead this country, we will always go the extra miles, negotiate differences; we will always stand for peace; we will always work for disarmament under proper inspection, but under no circumstances, when we're doing something which is right, and that is defending the security of this country, will I apologize for the United States of America to anybody. This gives an idea of the choice. You have on our side two men who know Mr. Khrushchev, two men who for 7½ years have worked with President Eisenhower, two men who have no illusions about the difficulty of this struggle, two men who are not telling the people of the United States that it's easy - we tell you that it's hard - but two men who are not running the United States down, two men who have faith in the American people, faith in our system, faith that if we stand for the right that the right will prevail. And in that connection, I would just like to say one last thing. Senator Kennedy was quoted in the papers a couple of weeks ago to the effect that he was tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev was doing. He was tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro was doing. He wished that he could read in the paper what the President of the United States was doing. And all that I can say: If he would stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower was doing. No, President Eisenhower isn't making a fool of himself in the U.N., but we don't want him to do that. We want him to act with dignity, as he did when he represented us there. He isn't trying to muscle into the Congo, as Khrushchev did. He's working through the U.N., as he should. And that's the kind of leadership that Cabot Lodge and I offer to the American people, leadership that will be strong, never belligerent, always fighting for the cause of freedom. And, so, my friends here, I submit the case on that basis. I say to you that you must judge us by our record, by our experience, and by what we stand for, and if you believe that we can provide the leadership that will keep America strong, that will make this a richer and a better country for all of us, but, above all, that will keep the peace without surrender, that will extend the ideals of freedom which we are so fortunate to enjoy in this country, if you believe that, then we ask you to go out and work in this cause, fight for it, remembering that you are fighting and working for a cause that's bigger than a party. This cause is as big as America, itself, and it is in that spirit that we ask for your support today. Thank you.
ANNOUNCER. Vice President Richard M. Nixon answers the question. "The Open Question." We bring you at this time a special public service program featuring the Republican candidate for President of the United States, Vice President Richard M. Nixon. Please remember that the questions asked on this program do not necessarily represent the opinions of the panel members, but serve as a means of bringing out the facts and information. Now, here is the moderator of the program, Mr. Thomas Tuttle, Milwaukee attorney. Mr. Tuttle. Moderator THOMAS TUTTLE: Hello, ladies and gentlemen, our guest tonight is the Vice President of the United States, Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Nixon, welcome to "The Open Question." The VICE PRESIDENT. I am very glad to be on this program and to be in Milwaukee at least for a few hours today. Moderator TUTTLE: Thank you. Here to interview the Vice President are Mr. Ray Doherty of the United Press International news service in Milwaukee, Mr. Paul Ringler of the Milwaukee Journal staff and Mr. Art Olszyk, assistant news editor of WTMJ and WTMJ-TV. This week the pollsters who are engaged in the lively, but hazardous, so-called process of predicting who will win the November presidential election, figure the race to be just about even. However, whether or not Richard M. Nixon becomes our next President, he has enjoyed one of the most remarkable political careers in the history of our country. In 1946 some people of his State of California suggested that he run for Congress as a Republican from his home district. He did just that, won easily, and in 1950 was elected to the U.S. Senate. In 1952, Dwight Eisenhower selected him to be his Vice Presidential running mate, and this combination, as we all know, was victorious that year and again in 1956. Last July his fellow Republicans nominated him for the Presidency, and he's here tonight in the midst of a very hectic campaign. Who has the first question for the Vice President? Mr. Olszyk. Mr. ARTHUR OLSZYK (assistant news editor of WTMJ and WTMJ-TV). Mr. Nixon, the preliminary vote in the United Nations General Assembly this afternoon on the admission of Red China indicates that the United States and the West will win again on this point, but by a smaller margin than ever, in what has been a declining margin over the past few years. Now, Senator Kennedy considers this particular vote over the years as a kind of barometer or gauge of our prestige and standing abroad. How do you feel about it, and what comment would you have on its declining in the United Nations? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I certainly don't think this vote indicates that the U.S. prestige is declining. It does indicate concern, on the part particularly of many of the new countries in the United Nations, over the Communist government of China and it also indicates concern over the basic question of whether that government ought to be in the United Nations. We want to remember that there have been a number of new countries admitted to the United Nations and that, as those new countries come in, some of the positions they take are governed to an extent by nations that are considerably different from those that have been members from the beginning. Now, as far as this vote is concerned, I think the important thing is that we again have been able to sustain our opposition to the admission of Red China to the United Nations because it does happen that we have some governments that are friendly to us which want and do favor admission of Red China to the United Nations. I want to make clear why I believe this would be a mistake, because we really have to get to the heart of the issue. I think it's a mistake because, frankly, we can't use the United Nations as a reformatory, to put it bluntly. There are those who suggest, "Well, if we bring in Red China, this means we can get them to change their very aggressive attitudes." But let's look at what they are doing right at the present time. At the present time, Red China is in defiance of the United Nations in Korea. That's why we still have to have forces there. Red China was responsible for the difficulties in Tibet, which certainly was in violation of the principles of the United Nations. It is stirring up trouble against United Nations members throughout the southeast Asia perimeter. It holds prisoner citizens of the United States violating all the rules of international law. It does all of these things and it simply does not qualify as a peace-loving member of the community of nations, and the Charter of the United Nations puts that down as a qualification. Now, if we were to change our position and to vote for admitting Red China to the United Nations, we would in effect, I think, reduce the moral power of the United Nations a great deal. I don't think we can do it. I think that once Red China changes its position, once it qualifies as a civilized member of the community of nations, we can change our position on admission but until it changes its position we can't change ours. Moderator TUTTLE. Mr. Ringler. Mr. PAUL RINGLER (Milwaukee Journal). Mr. Nixon, there was mention in last night's debate about a possible crisis in Berlin sometime next year, and certainly Mr. Khrushchev's threats of the last week would fortify this fear. How far should this country and the West go to keep West Berlin free? The VICE PRESIDENT. I think it is not helpful to anticipate what the crisis would be and publicly to indicate what we would do under this circumstance or that. I think the moment that we do that we, in effect, give away our strategy. We also can be charged with threatening and with a variety of other charges which the Communists would be sure to make. I would only say this: that I can think of no greater disaster to the cause of freedom than for the United States and the West to desert the free people of Berlin. I think that we have to be prepared to do whatever is necessary to stand with the people of Berlin to maintain their freedom. Now, of course, we have here the problem of whether this means going to the ultimate point in the event Khrushchev uses force. My opinion is that if we keep the strength of the United States up and that of our Allies - and this means keep it at the level that we presently have vis-a-vis the Soviet Union, which means we are stronger than they are and so able to counteract a surprise attack with devastating destruction on the Soviet Union - then Khrushchev will not force the issue in Berlin. As a matter of fact, I think that is the reason or one of the major reasons that he broke up the summit conference. I think that he realized, as he got to the summit conference in Paris, that the West was united, that he was not going to be able to be successful in getting his way there and so he wanted to find a reason to break it up. So, without being specific as to what we would do, which I think would be a mistake in my position as Vice President, I will only say that the United States and the West will stand by the free people of Berlin, that we are letting Mr. Khrushchev know that publicly by the statements that we're making and that we have to back that up with strength and that means that we must continue to increase our military strength so that we maintain the advantage we presently have. Moderator TUTTLE. Mr. Doherty. Mr. RAY DOHERTY (United Press International News Service). Mr. Vice President, Senator Kennedy said today in one of his campaign speeches that the administration's record in Africa is one of neglect and indifference which has resisted in a steady decline of American prestige and a steady growth of Soviet influence. Would you comment on that, please? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Doherty, Africa is one of my pet subjects and is one in which we do have grave problems. I'd like to point out however, that as far as U.S. policy toward Africa is concerned until very recently we had very few rights to have policies toward Africa because we had there colonial countries, colonial countries in which the British, the French, the Belgians, and others had the jurisdiction over the territories involved. Now as these countries have acquired their independence, then the United States has acquired a responsibility and a right to deal directly with the individual nations concerned. I think that as far as our African policy is concerned we have been since that time - beginning, for example, with the independence of Ghana, a ceremony which I attended and with the other independent movements which have come along - that since that time the United States has very properly been stepping up its programs for Africa. Now I don't think we're doing enough today, and I would mention these other things that I think we have to step up more in the future. First, we're going to have to have more developmental assistance in terms of technical assistance and loans to these newly developing economies. Second, we're going to have to have more exchange programs, and this is infinitely important because it is just a waste of money to pour millions of dollars into these countries without training the personnel who can run the show. And, third, in addition to that we need, of course, to have close political ties with African nations. We are doing more than we have been doing. I do not think the situation is as black as Senator Kennedy paints it. As a matter of fact, I think it is a situation of hope, but it's difficult - because, let's remember, we had some troubles when we got our independence, and were blessed with great natural resources and also with a fairly well-developed people educationally. In Africa - take the Congo, for example - there are only 12 college graduates in the whole Congo. That was the case at least 6 months ago. Now we can see the problems that we have. They are terribly complex. We're going to have many difficulties, but I think if we work together with our friends, other friends in the free world, in helping them economically, but most of all, in helping them develop a trained personnel to run a government, to run an economy, if we can do this, Africa can be saved for the cause of freedom. Moderator TUTTLE. Mr. Olszyk. Mr. OLSZYK. In foreign affairs, in the campaign, discussing cause and effect, as you did last night when you were asked about your activities in the 1952 campaign, you made the point that you supported the decision to go into South Korea, but that you criticized the situation, the policies of the administration that made that necessary. In that same respect, do you feel that our actions, our policies, have played a part in what's happened in Cuba? Do you feel the administration, for want of a better word, is partly to blame or anything like that? The VICE PRESIDENT. When we talk about the administration we've got to talk about both administrations because, as I pointed out last night in the debate, when we talk about the dictators in Latin America, there were 11 when this administration came into power in 1953. We inherited 11. There are only three left in Latin America today. Mr. Batista came into power not in this administration. He came in in the previous administration. So, we want to get that straight right away. Now the responsibility being shared, let us see where we go from there. As far as Mr. Batista is concerned, and Mr. Castro, I think that we will all have to recognize that the U.S. position in Latin America is complicated by the traditional Latin American suspicion of American intervention from what they call "the Colossus of the North." That's why the treaty was entered in, to which I referred last night, the treaty with all the 20 American Republics in which we expressly agreed with them that neither we nor they would interfere in the internal affairs of any of these countries. Now we have adhered to this. There are those who said: "Why didn't we get in and move Batista out?" We didn't have the right to under the treaty. If we had had, it would have been resented and it would probably have been counterproductive. Now these are reasons for not doing the things that people suggest could have been done. The last thing I would say is that as far as Cuba is concerned, I do not consider it to be a hopeless situation. I consider it to be one where the Cuban people will reassert their right to freedom and to progress through freedom rather than without it. Moderator TUTTLE. Mr. Ringler. Mr. RINGLER. Mr. Vice President, following the debate last night, this statement was put out by the Republican National Committee in Washington and quoted Senator Morton, the chairman of the committee, as saying, in part: "Senator Kennedy made it abundantly clear that in his approach to Russia he would be willing to grovel on his hands and knees to apologize to the butcher of the Kremlin." And then there's a paragraph about what you would do. Then: "Senator Kennedy is the apostle of appeasement." Would you care to comment on that statement of Senator Morton? The VICE PRESIDENT. I have never made statements of that type concerning Senator Kennedy, and I do not intend to. I have never questioned his motives. I think his intentions are certainly good in the sense that he, like myself, and like all of you here on this panel and the people listening on television, wants to have peace without surrender. The problem is whether or not he has the experience, whether or not he has the judgment to develop the correct policies. In my opinion, his recommendations, or at least his suggestion that the President should have apologized or expressed regrets for the U-2 flights, was exactly the wrong way to keep the peace without surrender. I think it was the wrong way to deal with Khrushchev. I think it would have led to consequences that Mr. Kennedy would be just as opposed to as I am. By the same token, I think his statement with regard to Quemoy and Matsu, where he indicated we ought to get the Nationalist Chinese to turn these islands over to the Communists - I think that's well intentioned. I think perhaps he thought this would save peace in the area. I think, as is always the case with dictators, that making a concession of this sort would have led to consequences that he would not have wanted, that would certainly mean in the long run either surrender in the one case or war in the other. Now, when you use the word "appeasement," however, that has a connotation that a man deliberately is attempting to be weak in dealing with the Soviet. I don't think that Senator Kennedy intends to be weak. I think his judgment is bad. I want to make that clear. I think his judgment is bad. I think it was very bad on the apology statement. I think it was very bad on Quemoy and Matsu, but I don't think he intends to be soft or weak. Moderator TUTTLE: For those of you who tuned in late, Vice President Nixon is here in Milwaukee as our guest on "The Open Question" tonight, and if you haven't already guessed it we are discussing politics. Mr. DOHERTY. Mr. Vice President, Senator Kennedy said today and he said last night that Governor Rockefeller's indictments of United States strength and prestige are greater than his. Would you comment on that? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I would say I have read both Governor Rockefeller's and Senator Kennedy's indictments, because both of them, of course, have been at one time or another political opponents of mine. I have talked to Governor Rockefeller at great length on the defense matter. There is a difference in emphasis and there was a difference in emphasis in the primary campaign. But, as far as our attitude is concerned, I think that we agree at this time on what we ought to do on defense. As far as saying that Governor Rockefeller's indictments are much stronger than his, I simply don't think the record bears that out. Governor Rockefeller has never made these fantastic charges that Senator Kennedy has, such as that United States prestige is at an all-time low. Governor Rockefeller has made it clear, as I have, that we should step up our economic growth to the greatest extent possible, but he has not taken the pessimistic line that Senator Kennedy has taken, and that is the difference. Mr. OLSZYK. Mr. Nixon, we have spent a lot of time talking about what Senator Kennedy says and I thought perhaps we would switch here. In an interview here in Milwaukee earlier this week, the Democratic national chairman, Senator Jackson, said, in the words of Ezra Taft Benson himself, "Mr. Nixon is part and parcel of the Benson farm policy." Now, you are advocating a program that is different from that. Now, in view of that, in looking back on the last 7 years of the Benson program, what is your overall assessment of what it has accomplished and how successful it was? The VICE PRESIDENT. The difficulty with Secretary Benson's program was that he was never able to get the Congress to adopt it; so he never really had a fair trial of his program. The difficulty was that he took a position which was rigid insofar as the particular matters he was insisting upon, a position which he deeply believed could not be compromised. The Congress took another position and, as a result, we had a stalemate between the executive and the legislative branch, with no action. That's why I have departed from the Benson program, because, in my opinion, the worst thing we can do about the farm program or practically the worst, next to the program Senator Kennedy is advocating, is to leave it where it is, because under this program farm income is being driven down and surpluses are continuing to pile up.  So I have a new program, a new program which takes a much more imaginative and, I think, a much more effective way of dealing with surpluses, one which will maintain and strengthen farm income during the period that we're getting rid of the surpluses. It will not have what I think was the weakness in the Benson program, which kept the Congress from adopting it - and that was that Secretary Benson's program in effect provided that in the period when we were getting rid of surpluses the farmer would have to bear the cost of the transition.  I say that since the surpluses were created not by the farmer but because the Government got the farmer to do it, the Government must bear the cost of that transition period.  That is the major difference in my approach and Secretary Benson's, and I think that is the reason the farmers will support my program and the Congress will as well.  Mr. RINGLER. At both La Crosse and Rochester today you opposed broadening the activities of the Federal Government, particularly, I believe, in the fields of education and welfare, and said that State and local governments should shoulder more of these responsibilities.  Since 1945 the gross Federal debt has increased from $258 billion to $284 billion, but the gross debt of State and local governments has increased from $16 billion to $62 billion.  How can the State and local governments, already overburdening their taxpayers, shoulder these extra loads?  The VICE PRESIDENT. Let me say, Mr. Ringler, first of all, I indicated in my talks today that the Federal Government did have responsibilities in this field, and I want to make it clear that I have supported a bill for Federal aid for school construction. I also have supported one in the field of health, which will be a Federal - State program, as distinguished from the compulsory Federal program which Senator Kennedy has advocated. So I do recognize the Federal Government must assume a part of this burden. Where I depart from Senator Kennedy's proposition is that whenever he sees a problem he says we bypass the States, we bypass the individual, and we go to the Federal Government to have it solved.  Now that's oversimplifying it, but that generally is the difference we have.  I start at the other end of the spectrum. I say we see first what the individual can do to solve a problem. Then we get everything done, as much as possible, at the State and local level, and then the Federal Government steps in and does what remains to be done.  I say this because I think it is better for the country, whenever you can, to strengthen individual enterprise, and whenever you can, to keep government at the local level, closer to the people.  Mr. TUTTLE. Mr. Vice President, last Tuesday the Wall Street Journal, which I think is generally regarded as being favorable toward you, stated - and I am paraphrasing - that the product you are offering in the political marketplace all too often seems merely a pale imitation of the Democratic product and, for that reason, it is hard to sell, so you're having a tough time selling it. If you think that is an unfair statement, can you mention some activities the Federal Government ought to discontinue doing, or tick off several instances where you feel the Republicans have a clear-cut difference as far as Federal activity is concerned? The VICE PRESIDENT. I can by just following up on the question that I just answered. In the field of health, Senator Kennedy advocates a compulsory health insurance program for people over 65 years of age. I oppose a compulsory program. I think it should be a voluntary program, State and Federal, with participation by the State and private insurance companies as well, so that the individual has the right to choose and is not forced to take health insurance against his will. In the field, for example, of aid to education, I oppose direct subsidy for teachers' salaries because I recognize that once the Federal Government gets into that business the Federal Government inevitably, in my opinion ,will control what is taught. I believe the best way to raise our teachers' salaries is to do it indirectly, so that we can have no control, and that is through a program of Federal aid to school construction. Let's take the farm program. Here we have Senator Kennedy's proposition, which would put the Federal Government into the farm business and shackle Federal controls on all the farming community forever. My program is one that is designed to move in the other direction. I would say the best answer to the Wall Street Journal is probably to look at the cost of the programs. Our programs would cost approximately $10 billion less per year than theirs would insofar as an increase in the budget. I would just add this last point: I do not agree with those people who say that what we should do when we have problems is just to leave them to the States and to the individuals. Now, if the States and the individuals will handle the problems of schools, if they will provide the medical care, if they will do the things that the people want done and that should be done, that is certainly the proper thing to do. But it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to step in where individual or local government cannot or will not do the job. And I simply cannot buy what I think is a view which is outmoded and reactionary, that the Federal Government just leaves everything to the individuals. Where you have these human problems we have to have solutions, but I say let's have solutions which keep the individual and the local responsibility in to the ultimate extent. Mr. RINGLER. Back to what I believe is your major concern, the world situation, if we could agree the free world alliance is not entirely what we would like it to be, how do you favor improving it? Broaden the NATO organization, some form of Atlantic union, what you called in the platform regional confederations, United Nations strengthening? The VICE PRESIDENT. I would improve it, Mr. Ringler, in several ways. One, I think we should strengthen the United Nations, particularly in ways it can deal with situations like the Congo. I mean we should have ready forces, ready to go in there to protect the independence of these new countries. Second, I think we should strengthen the regional organizations like the OAS and NATO and develop them along political and economic grounds, as well as military grounds. Third, I think we need new regional organizations, confederations, as Governor Rockefeller has used the term, and I support him in this. We are exploring that now, and I will make a major speech on it in the campaign. We need new regional organizations, both political and economic, through which the United States will work with the new areas of Asia and Africa and the Near East, these newly independent countries, in developing economic and political progress. We face, frankly, great problems in the 1960's, but I would like to point out I think they are tremendously exciting problems, because we have the resources to meet them. Now all we need is the leadership and the imagination to use these resources to attain the greatest progress we've ever had. Mr. DOHERTY. Mr. Vice President, three Democratic Senators today urged the networks for you and Senator Kennedy to add a fifth debate inasmuch as this fourth one comes 18 days before the election. Would you be in favor of another one? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I haven't had any word from the networks on this, and I would say I would imagine the people would have to decide that. They might get tired of them after four. We don't want to wear them out, clearly apart from wearing out the candidates. Mr. OLSZYK. Mr. Nixon, as the possible incumbent in 4 years, would you be willing to take on a Democrat in the same manner in TV debates as you have up to now? The VICE PRESIDENT. That will be inevitable. I would say, while an incumbent never, in good politicking, so-called, debates his opponent, that the pressures from the public now will be such that I think in all campaigns in the future the two presidential candidates will appear together on television. So I make that commitment for myself, and I also make it for Senator Kennedy, if he wants it. Mr. TUTTLE. Mr. Vice President, our time is up. I wish we could continue. Thank you very much for stopping off in Milwaukee to be our guest on "Open Question." The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Now, on an occasion like this, when you're standing there in the sun and when even those visors don't keep it all out of your eyes, a speaker has somewhat of a problem in trying to determine the things that would be of greatest interest to you in the small amount of time that we have. And, so, I would like to hit just a few points as quickly as I can and to pick those issues that are of the greatest interest to the people in this audience. First of all, I want to begin with the test of the standard that I think the people of Minnesota and the people of the Nation ought to follow in electing a President of the United States this year. Those of you who heard the television debate with Senator Kennedy last night will remember this question came up right at the end. The question was: Should a man or a woman, a voter, vote the party or the man, in effect? And I was asked the question. Senator Kennedy's answer to that question or the proposition that he attempts to maintain is that the party is what is important. I say that when we elect a President of the United States, particularly this year, 1960, in which he is to be not only President of this country, but the man who has the responsibility for leading the free world, it isn't enough just to vote for the party label, that what we should do is to put America first and vote our country rather than our party - and I ask all of you to do that. Now, I say that for that reason. I say it also because that has been the tradition in America. We have had great Presidents who have been Republicans and some who have been Democrats, but our people sense somehow the kind of leadership the Nation needs in critical periods of its history, and I present our case to you today not in terms of simply voting for me because I am of the same party - in other words, look at my label and don't look behind it - but I present the case in terms of, consider what I stand for; consider the programs that I and my party will be putting into effect, and then do what is best for America, and then we will respect that decision because it will be the best decision for America. Now, in considering those things that you want for the Nation, there are a number of them that I know will be uppermost in your minds. I would just like to list a few of them here today, let you know where we stand, give you an indication where our opponents stand, and then you can make an intelligent choice. First, what do you want in America? What do all of us want? We begin, I think all of us, with the desire that we have progress in this country. That's the kind of a people we are. The people who made America are not a standstill people. We want to move ahead, and we don't want to leave anybody behind as we move ahead. So, as you judge the two candidates and their programs, judge us in terms of the proposals that will spell progress for America. You want programs under which we can have continually better jobs, at higher wages. You want programs in which we will have better schools and better housing, and here in this great center of medical education and treatment, we want programs in which our medical care for all segments of our society can constantly be improved, and where everybody will have the opportunity to get the medical care that he needs. All these things we would like in the way of progress in America. I say to you today that I stand for programs that will produce progress in these areas. I believe they will produce more progress than will the programs advocated by my opponent. They are different from the ones he advocates. The fact that they are different, however, doesn't give him the right to say, as he did when he was in Minnesota, that I and my party are against medical care for the aged, that we are against better schools, that we are against better housing, that we are against better conditions of employment for our people. All that I can say is that when he says that he is simply talking in terms of the promises he makes, and if he had produced anything in his promises, he might have a right to talk, but he hasn't done a thing yet and he has nothing to recommend him to elect him President of the United States on the basis of the special session. It is very easy to talk about all the programs you're for, but when they had the opportunity, as they have had the opportunity during these past years, they were not able to move forward in these areas in which they have talked. Now, let's look at some of these programs, and particularly one that will be of great interest to this audience here, the program of medical care for the aged. We stand for a program which recognizes this program, recognizes it because we know that all of our families in this country want to see to it that our older citizens not only are well cared for, but that they have the opportunity to get care particularly when illnesses of serious nature strike. Now, in this connection we have two programs offered. We have one offered by my opponent which would impose compulsory health insurance on those older citizens and eventually, in my opinion, on all the people of this country, because once it starts it is bound to spread. On the other hand, here's our program, and listen to it: It is one which will see to it that every person over 65 who wants health insurance will be able to get it, where everyone who needs it is encouraged to get it, but where no one is forced to have health insurance who doesn't want it against his will. We believe this is the American way to handle this problem.  Now, some people might say, "But, Mr. Nixon, won't it be easier to have it the other way? Won't it be easier just to have the Federal Government take this thing over rather than to have a Federal-State program? Won't it be easier not to bother with private health insurance programs ?" Yes; it would be easier, a lot simpler, but, my friends, you would destroy the standard of medical care because, remember, we have the best medical care in the world today. We don't want to destroy it, and speaking here in Rochester, Minn., I am proud to stand for a program that will respect the integrity, the individuality, of our medical profession and will enable them to continue to give Americans the best medical care in the world. This is just one example. Whether it's medical care, housing, jobs, all of these areas, we have programs that will produce progress. You say, "Prove it." Well, let's take the record. We have the record of the Truman administration, which Mr. Kennedy defends, and whose policies he would return to. We have the record of our administration over the last 7½ years. Compare the two. Schools? Well, we built three times as many as they did in 7 years. Houses? We built more than they did in those 7 years. What about income? We find the income of our wage earners, 67 million, has gone up 15 percent in those 7 years, whereas in the Truman 7 years it went up only 2 percent. I say: Whatever guide you want to take, we have made more progress in this administration than in the previous administration. So, there you have a clear test - the policies we advocate, the policies they advocate. Ours work and theirs only constitute promises which won't work. Now, why is it ours work? There's a very fundamental difference in our approach. They say the way to progress in every instance is to turn the problem over to the Federal Government. If you've got a problem, whether it's schools or housing or medical care, they say set up a huge Government program; spend a great deal of money, billions of dollars; weaken the States' responsibility; take away the responsibility of individuals; it's too complicated; have all the Federal bureaucrats run the program. That is their platform up and down the line. Now, how do we answer it? We say the way to start, if you want to get the most out of this great country of ours, is not by putting the primary responsibility on the Federal Government. We say the way to greatness in America is not through what the Government does, but what the American people are allowed to do - and that's what our programs do in every instance. We encourage our people to handle these programs. And it's because we do inspire, we do stimulate, individual enterprise, and because we do encourage at the State and the local level the solution to these problems that we have produced in the past and will produce in the future greater progress, a better life for our people, than their programs will. Now, there's a difference, however, which I should point out, and this is one you must have in mind. Sometimes people have said to me, "Now, Mr. Nixon, how can you possibly say your program in the field of housing and health and education will produce more progress than theirs? After all, they're going to spend a lot more money than you are." And I concede that. They do. They are going to spend more money. As a matter of fact, they will spend billions of dollars more for all of their programs than we would spend, but remember this, my friends: It isn't Jack's money they're going to be spending, but your money. Just have that in mind. And as you remember that, I say that if we can have programs that will produce progress by spending less of your money, that's a lot better than to have programs that promise progress but won't produce it by spending more of your money. I say that it's the responsibility of anybody in public office, and particularly a man in the President's chair, to represent all the people and to see to it that not one dollar of your money is spent in Washington that isn't necessary, that every dollar is spent that is necessary for our defense, for the other areas, but that where we can do the job for less, we should do it for less. So, this is your basic point. If you want higher taxes, if you want higher prices, don't vote for us because that is the way they will move with their programs. I say that ours are programs which will do the job by spending less and do a better job. This is your great test that you must apply in this domestic field. Now, let me turn to the other subject that I think is of primary concern, and it's the most important of all - most important of all because all of us realize that we can have the best housing and health and medical care, the best programs in the field of social security that we can imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. We're thinking now of the future of not only ourselves, but our children, and I say to you today that the most important test that you must apply to the man who is to be elected the next President of the United States is this: Is he qualified, by background and experience, in judgment, to lead the free world - to lead the free world and to keep the peace without surrender? This is what Americans want above everything else and what the world wants, and this, I say, is the test you must apply to me and my opponent. Now, obviously, I'm going to tell you today that I believe our team, Cabot Lodge and I, can do a more effective job of keeping the peace without surrender and extending freedom than can our opponents; but, again, how can you test us? Well, look at our record. We have been part of the Eisenhower administration for the last 7½ years. We have had the opportunity in that 7½ years to work with the President on the great decisions which have kept the peace in that period. Now, I know there's been a great deal of criticism of the President's record and of our record, but, my friends, all of you know the truth, and the criticism will not obscure the truth, and the truth is this: That under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got this Nation out of one war, we've kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today, and we want to continue that kind of leadership tomorrow and in the years ahead. Now, what are our qualifications? Our qualifications are, in addition to our background to which I referred, that both of us know the men in the Kremlin. We have sat opposite them at the conference table. I know that sometimes our opponents have said, well, our opportunities to talk to these people have been merely debating with them. Well, my friends, let me say this: We're going to be debating with the men in the Kremlin and the representatives of communism for many, many years to come, and I will say, as far as I am concerned and as far as my colleague, Cabot Lodge, is concerned, that I think we've done pretty well handling them up to this point, and we'll do pretty well in the years ahead if you will give us the opportunity. Let me turn to another charge that has been made. I know it has been said that America has lost its prestige. You heard something to that effect last night. It's been said that we find all over the world the Communists have the initiative, that we've been standing still, that this administration has been following a policy of retreat and defeat. Well, now, let's nail that for what it is. First of all, as far as this item of prestige, I think it was best summed up by Senator Kennedy, at least the charge was summed up, when he said in New York just a few days ago that: "I'm tired of reading in the paper," he said, "what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing." He said, "I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Well, my friends, if he would just Stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, it's true he isn't doing some of the things that Senator Kennedy wanted him to do apparently. He didn't apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev for making the U-2 flights, and I think the American people agree with him on that. It's true, too, that he didn't make a fool of himself at the United Nations, as Khrushchev did, and we can thank God our President is a man of dignity and maintained his dignity throughout this period there, too. It's true, too, he didn't try to muscle into the Congo, but that we tried to maintain the independence and security of this country. All these things are true, but if I might go further, may I say that, looking to the future, under the leadership we will give, we will keep this Nation the strongest in the world. I'll tell you why. Because we know the men in the Kremlin. We know that unless we're the strongest in the world, we may be in a position where they will be able to blackmail us at an international conference, and this must never happen. So, you can be sure that under our leadership America will be strong and, as I indicated last night, I am one who will insist that, as we maintain our strength, the American people will support whatever is necessary to keep the freedom and the peace that we enjoy. Second, we will not only keep this country strong at home; we will see that the economy of this country moves forward, moves forward because we must maintain the lead we have over them in this economic field. We must never let Mr. Khrushchev make good on his boast that he's going to catch us and, my friends, he never will. I have seen the Soviet Union. I know what their system is. He says he's going to catch us in 7 years. He won't catch us in 70 years provided we remain true to the great principles that have made America the country that it is today and we will lead you in that direction.  We will keep the diplomacy of this country firm and strong, and in that connection with all of the talk about retreat and defeat might I suggest that it has not been this administration that has been retreating. We find that it was the previous administration under which 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain and whether it's in Quemoy or Matsu or anyplace else there will be no retreat or no defeat under the leadership we will give to the American people in these next 4 years.  The last point I would make is this: I've been talking about our good life at home and how we can make it and can and should make it better. I've been talking about the necessity for America to be strong militarily and economically. But my friends above everything else and this I say with the greatest conviction based on my travels abroad and on seeing the United States at home, if we're going to win this struggle for peace and freedom we Americans have to realize, deep down inside, what this struggle is about. We've got to know what we stand for. We've got to know what we're fighting for.  It isn't just that we're trying to keep our own security. It isn't just because we're trying to hold the line against those that would attack freedom throughout the world. What America stands for is something that goes clear back to the earliest days of our history. It goes back to the Declaration of Independence. It goes back to the Constitution. It is a faith that was in the hearts of the people of America then. It was a faith that was in the hearts of the people, millions of immigrants, who came to this country and who saw the Statue of Liberty as they came in. And what is it? It is that America stands for more than military strength. It stands for more than economic strength.  That's all the Communists believe in - might. We believe in right. And what are those things? Oh, they're talked down by the materialists and the militarists. They're underemphasized and underestimated, but they've always made that mistake. What makes America a great country, my friends, is that we do have great ideals, and that's our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of all men, regardless of their background, our belief in the rights of men to be free, our belief that all nations have a right to be independent, and our belief that these great ideals belong not just to us, but they belong to all mankind.  This is what America stands for. This is what we came into the world for, and these are the beliefs that you, the people of this country, must strengthen. You must strengthen them in our schools, in our churches, in our homes, so that the young people of America will have a burning idealism.  When I visit the Soviet Union, I see a sign in every factory, "Work for the Victory of Communism." I visited pioneer camps with strutting, goosestepping Russian children, working for the victory of communism. They're working for the wrong, and working hard, and we have to have a conviction and a faith in the right and work the harder for it, but that must come from our people - and, as you strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of this country at home, then the President of the United States can lead the forces of freedom and peace, and lead them to victory without war abroad. That's what we want to do. That's what Cabot Lodge and I are asking for the privilege to do. We don't tell you it will not cost sacrifices for us and our people, but we do tell you this: It is worth fighting for. It is worth living for. This is a great country, and let me tell you, anybody who runs her down, anyone who doesn't understand the greatness of America, simply hasn't seen, not only this country, but countries abroad, and because freedom is something that is precious, because it means something to us, and because you realize it when you see people, as I do, in Poland and Russia who don't have it, America has a mission, a mission to extend freedom throughout the world. This is the kind of leadership we want to give, not stand still, not smug, not being satisfied, but moving forward and extending the great American ideals which we enjoy to all the world. And, so, with that, I thank you for coming. If you believe that we can provide the leadership that America needs, if you believe these men on our State ticket are the men who are the best men, regardless of party, then I say to all of you here: Go out and spread the word through this State of Minnesota, because we need it. This is a close State. It's a real battleground, but we can win it if we fight - and you will fight if you realize that we're on the right side. I believe we are, and I'm sure you do, too. Thank you.
Two of the four nationwide TV debates between my opponent and me have been held. They reveal cleavages which are crucial for our future at home and in the world. We should point up these differences right now. I will discuss them further as the campaign moves along. My opponent has endorsed certain domestic programs, and has subscribed to foreign policy ideas that I am convinced would be harmful to our people, would weaken America, and would endanger peace and freedom in the world. In foreign affairs, there is an appalling list: My opponent continues to tell the American people - and all the listening world - of his doleful contention that the United States is disrespected and disliked throughout the community of nations. He continues to assert that the President of the United States could have expressed regrets or apologized to Mr. Khrushchev at Paris for the measures he had taken to defend the United States against surprise attack. He wants America to tell our Chinese Nationalist allies in effect to surrender Quemoy and Matsu - islands which symbolize Free China's resistance to the spread of Asian communism - to Red China. He raises doubt regarding our Armed Forces - the most powerful on earth, and the anchor of liberty everywhere. My opponent contends that the Voice of America is weak, ignoring both its growth under President Eisenhower and the fact that Congresses controlled by Senator Kennedy and his followers have cut the funds requested by the President. Senator Kennedy pledges to give energetic new leadership in world councils. He should explain to the American people, first, his negligence to hold meetings this year of his Senate Subcommittee on Africa, of which he is chairman; and second, his failure to attend even one meeting of the Senate Disarmament Subcommittee since his appointment to it in 1958. He now calls for standing up to Caribbean and South American dictators, but he fails to mention the fact that 11 dictators were in power in this area in 1953 when our administration took over, and now only 3 are left. He insists that the world looks to the Soviets for active leadership instead of to America, even though on every major issue in the United Nations in the past 7½ years where the United States has been on one side and the Soviet Union on the other, the United States position has prevailed. All this leads me to the conclusion that my opponent is inventing issues where, in fact, they do not exist, indicating weaknesses where, in reality, there is strength. At home, our differences are likewise crucial to the Nation's future. He promises Federal spending of billions of dollars in excess of revenues, and therefore pledges, in effect, to return to runaway inflation or to increased Federal taxation of the American people. He hints at intervention that would jeopardize the independence of the Federal Reserve System which is required to keep our money sound. He promises a farm program that would force drastic cutbacks in production and marketing, force 2 million people out of work, trigger off inflation, sharply raise food prices, create food scarcity, and regiment all agriculture by setting up all sorts of new regulations and creating new battalions of Government overseers to watch over and tell every farmer what he could or could not do. He promises to impose a mandatory medical care plan for the aged on every one of the millions of citizens covered by social security, no matter what their personal desires, and leave 3 million Americans with no medical care program at all. My plan would not be compulsory and would provide medical care programs for all those who needed and wanted them. My opponent promises to begin using Federal funds for the payment of teachers' salaries, opening a door that would surely lead to Federal control of what is taught in our schools. Hardly a significant area in American life can remain untouched if his philosophy of federalism as reflected in these programs were to be adopted. Freedom weakened at home, our economic strength undercut by lavish spending that leads to more inflation or more taxes our leadership in the world blunted by muddled thinking about the stern demands of the fateful struggle confronting us - there is the prospect for America revealed in the programs and statements of my opponent. As a matter of duty to the American people, I must make that prospect clear in the future debates with my opponent and as I campaign throughout the country.
Let me get to the heart of the problem of why you're here and why I am here. I realize that in this great audience are Republicans, members of my party; also, I realize there are Democrats, members of the other party; I realize there are some here who will support our ticket and some who may conclude to support the other - and that's as it should be - and I want to tell you the test that I am going to ask all of you here to apply, whether you are Republicans or Democrats. Those of you who heard the television debate or radio debate the other night will recall that Senator Kennedy and I had a very strong disagreement on a number of things, but particularly on this thing at the last of the debate. The question was raised as to what standard the people ought to apply in electing a President of the United States, and Senator Kennedy said what you ought to do is to apply the standard of the party; in other words, you should vote for the man who is a member of your party. I disagreed with him. I disagreed with him then. I disagree now. I say that in this year, 1960, when the man we elect as President must not only lead the United States, but the free world, it isn't enough to vote as your grandfather did or your father did. It isn't enough to vote just a party label. We have to put not the party first, but the man first, and that is the test I want you to apply in judging us on this occasion. So, I say to all of you here: Think of the future of America. Think of the future of the fine boys and girls in this band - and I deeply appreciate their coming out here this early morning. Think of the future of these youngsters here who are coming here just before going to school. You know, you're really not doing too well. Usually I come into town during school hours and you get to miss a class, but not this morning. But think of their future, and then judge me, judge my opponent, judge those who are running for office in this campaign on the basis of what leadership can best provide the progress that America wants in these years ahead. And, so, let's examine it from that standpoint. What do we want? Let's forget whether we're Republicans or Democrats. What do we want in this country? Let's think particularly in terms of those of us in the West. You know, my father came from Ohio and my mother from Indiana, and they both came to California, met there and were married. I know that many of you were born in Montana, but many of you or your fathers came here from someplace else, and one thing that characterizes the people of the West particularly is this: We're a go-ahead people. We never want to stand still. We're never satisfied with things as they are. We want to move forward in progress. So, the first point that I want to make today is this: That I'm proud to stand for a program that will move America ahead, that will move it ahead far more than will the programs that our opponents offer, and I want to face straight up to a charge that has been made. I want to answer, and then I want to prove by the facts that if you want to move ahead in Montana, if you want to move ahead in the great tradition of the West, where we want this country to expand, we want a better life for our children than we've had for ourselves, your choice is with us and not with our opponents. Point one. The difference is not in the goals that we promise. The difference is: Who can do it? And here you've got to look at the record. Here you've got to look at what we stand for. Here you've got to look at what we would spend to accomplish those goals. So, what do we want for progress? Well, first, we want better schools for our young people. We want better housing. I'm speaking of the average family. We also want better medical care for our older people, and for all of us as well. We want other things. We want an economy under which we can have good jobs, with high wages, and the housewives are very interested in seeing that those prices in the stores don't skyrocket, and keep up all of those wages, because they know at the end of the month they've got to meet them and have enough left over for the shoes and the other things we need to keep the family together. In other words, we want America to move forward in all these areas, and here in the West we're interested in expansion of our economy, in the development of our resources. All of these things we want. I tell you today that in all of these fields, whether it's schools or housing or health, that we find that I have programs, my party has, which will move America forward. Time will not permit me to go into them in detail, but I say they will move America forward more than will the others. Now, they have programs, too, and now we get right down to how you judge, and this is a difficult thing. Here you have one candidate coming in saying, "I'm for the good things which will produce progress." The other candidate says, "I'm for the good things that will produce progress." What are the folks going to do? What are the voters going to do? Here's what you do: First, you look at our record and on the record I say you compare the record of the Eisenhower administration with the record of the administration which preceded it. Both have been in for 7½ years, and you can take any test you want - schools, housing, medical care, jobs, wages, controlling inflation - and you will find that in this administration we have moved forward; we have had far greater progress than in the Truman administration. And, so, your choice is: If you want to go back to what we left, you have an easy choice because that's what our opponents offer. They offer the very same program with very little change, that we left in 1953. Here in the last 7½ years we have moved forward. But some of you may say, "Well, now just a minute, Mr. Nixon. We've been hearing Mr. Kennedy say over and over again that America has been standing still, that we've got to get going again, that we've got to cross these new frontiers." My friends, anybody who says America's been standing still for these past 7½ years hasn't been traveling around America. They ought to walk through Billings, for example, and see what's happened here, because this country has been moving. It was grinding to a stop 7½ years ago, but it has been moving in these last 7½ years. Now, let's get to the key question. On the record we have done a better job, and you examine your own lives and your own ideals and you will find that is the case. But why have we done a better job? Why will our programs work where their won't? And this is something extremely fundamental. The reason is that they have the wrong approach. They say, whatever they want, progress in any field, that the way to get it is to start with the Federal Government. If you want more schools, turn it all over to the Federal Government, including giving the Federal Government the power to pay the teachers and to tell the people what to teach, a power which, incidentally, we must avoid at all costs if we want to keep freedom in this country. I would say that if there were no other reason for voting for Orvin Fjare for the Senate of the United States the fact that his opponent has stood for a program in the field of education that would take away in the long run the power of the State, the local control of our school systems, the fact that he stood for that and led the fight for that, is the reason for Montana to send a man like Orvin Fjare down to the U.S. Senate who will stand for the right kind because, my friends, if we want better schools, we can have better schools. We have a program for school construction where its needed that will raise the standards of our teachers salaries and everything, but without Federal control - and that's the difference again, one you can see in a specific example. But again why do they fail? Because, whether it's schools, housing or anything else, they say the Federal Government, a huge spending program, give the Federal Government the power. Now, that's the easy way to do it. Of course, you don't have to worry about what the States do. You don't have to worry about what individuals do. You have a bunch of Federal bureaucrats who are going to solve all of your problems. But, my friends, that isn't the way America grew. That isn't the way the new frontiers of the West developed. That isn't the way America is going to move through the new frontiers of the 1960's and this last half of the 20th century, and I want to tell you the way we're going to move. The way we are going to move is following our philosophy. You know what the difference is? We say if you want progress in any field don't start with the Federal Government, but start with the real power in America, and that's 180 million free American citizens. Stimulate them. Encourage them. You see, it's because our programs will encourage and stimulate 180 million free Americans we start with them and we say: If the individual can do it, have him do the job; if he can't do it, then the local government; if the local government can't do it, then the State government; and then the Federal Government steps in when necessary, but does not step in in order to weaken the States and weaken the individual. That's the way America has grown in the past. That's the way we will grow in the future, and this is the big difference. Now, there is another difference, and this is one that is a little harder to explain. I particularly speak to some of these young people here, not the young voters, but the ones who are going to be young voters. Some people have said to me - talking to a teenager here recently, he said, 'Mr. Nixon, you say that you are more for progress than your opponent," and I said this on the two television debates - I'm more for progress and that my programs will produce more progress than his will - and then this youngster went on to say, "Tell me - how in the world can you say that when he is going to spend more to produce progress? In other words, isn't the measure of how much you're for progress how much money you're going to spend for all these programs?" Pretty hard question, isn't it, until you think it through? After all, my friends, it isn't Jack's money he's going to spend, but your money. That's what the people of the United States are aware of - your money. And, so, I say to you: Look at the program. Yes, I will admit - let's concede it right away - that they would spend billions of dollars more every year than our programs will for health, for housing, for schools; but, my friends, consider it for a moment. You want to go in a store over here and buy something. If you can get a better product for less money, you're going to take that rather than a poor product that costs more, and it's just as simple as that. We, in other words, have programs that will produce progress that will cost billions less, and they offer you programs that have failed in the past that won't produce, and which will cost more. And I say when the American people have that kind of choice, they're going to go with us rather than with them. Let's look at it a little further, when we consider this whole problem of cost. We must remember, then, your choice is this: If you are satisfied that you want to pay higher taxes, higher prices, remember that the programs that they have advocated will have to bring about this kind of financing, because the amount they will add to the budget will do and will require that kind of spending. So, I say to you: You have a choice here. Whether it's Senator Kennedy or whether it is Mr. Metcalf, who is running against Orvin Fjare, there isn't any question about who's going to spend the money - they are - but I say that you, the people of Montana, Republicans and Democrats or not, are sensible enough that you are certainly constructive enough that you're going to say we want progress, but let's get the kind of progress that is not going to raise our taxes and raise our prices. Let's move forward in the great American tradition where individuals have the opportunity to develop the great economy of this country. There is a clear choice. Let me go on to one more. You are developing oil and gas in this area. You've heard, some of you, about the so-called depletion allowance, and you know that our opponents are rather distressed about that. Their platform indicates they're going to reduce it, and yet they have a little difficulty on their ticket because the folks down in Texas won't particularly like that. So, we have the problem here as to what you want; but let me say this: Why is it, for example, that I, as a candidate for public office, don't come in here and say, "Let's tax these big people that are drilling for oil and the like more, so that we will have to pay less"? Let me tell you something. The problem here is not the question of whether we're going to have a lot of rich people who are drilling for oil and discovering it. The problem is whether or not we're going to have a rich country, because, my friends, when we have the kind of a tax policy that encourages and stimulates the development of the resources of a State like Montana, that means you're going to go forward; and I want to say here that I stand for a tax policy not that will discourage the development of the resources of Montana in oil and gas, but that will have more of it, and my opponent - you don't know where he stands. So, you know where Montana is going to be on that issue, I say, as far as this campaign is concerned. The last point that I want to mention is the most important of all. I've been talking, of course, about our progress in all of these areas at home, but, you know, when we look at our young people here, we realize that more important than that is to be sure, as sure as we can, that we have a government which cannot only provide this kind of progress, but we also want to be sure we're around to enjoy it. Let me put it another way. The major test you must apply to the man who is to be President of this country is: Who has the best qualifications? Who has the best experience to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? This is the great issue and the greatest problem which you will be considering in this election campaign. Now, on that issue you let me ask you to consider these things. First, our record. You've heard a lot about the record of this administration. We've made mistakes here and there and the other place, and it hasn't been perfect, we agree; but, my friends, think back to 1953 when I traveled through this part of the State and the country. Think back to what we were in then. All I can say is all the criticisms in the world will not obscure the truth, and the truth of the matter is that in this administration, under the leadership of President Eisenhower, we got the United States out of one war: we've kept her out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today, and we want to keep that kind of leadership in Washington Now, for the qualifications of the men; Cabot Lodge and I have sat in the high councils of this administration for 7½ years. We have participated in the decisions that have been made in that period in this and other areas. Now, I can't say anything about my qualifications appropriately compared with my opponent's, but I can say something about his, and I say that no man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job working for the cause of peace and freedom than our candidate for Vice President, Henry Cabot Lodge, as our Ambassador to the United Nations. And we will work together, I can assure you in this cause. Now, what do we offer you? We offer you, first, our experience, our background, but, second, we both know the Communists. We both have had the experience of sitting across the table from Mr. Khrushchev. We've proved by what we have done that I think we know how to deal with them, that we aren't going to be fooled by them, and, so I say to you, these are the things we're going to stand for: One, we're going to keep America the strongest in the world because we know that Mr. Khrushchev is a man who respects power and if he ever thinks we're weak, the trouble will start. Second, we're going to see that this economy moves forward because we must never let him catch us or catch up closer to us than he is. And, third, we're going to see to it that the diplomacy of this country is firm, firm without being belligerent. Now, let me say to this: I know there are a lot of people here who say, "Now Mr. Nixon, we all want peace. Isn't there a way, for example, that we could perhaps get Mr. Khrushchev's friendship by making a concession here or there?" And let me say those who think the way to deal with Khrushchev is to apologize to him or express regrets to him for doing something that is right simply shows the fact they are naive and don't understand the world situation and particularly don't know what the Communists are like. Because, remember this: The Communists don't react as do the leaders of the free world. You have to be firm with them. The moment you make a concession with out getting one in return, it means you only whet their appetite for more. And, so, you're firm. On the other hand, you're not belligerent. That means you've got to hold your temper, and it isn't easy, and you sit down and talk with a man like that and take his insults, but you hold your temper. Why! Because, my friends, whoever is President has got to be a man who recognizes he must never heat up the international atmosphere to the point that we destroy the world through a nuclear explosion. So, it is between this fine line, keeping firm on the one side and on the other side avoiding losing the temper, avoiding belligerency - this is the way to peace and, going beyond that, we strengthen the cause of freedom throughout the world. And I say to you, Henry Cabot Lodge and I, with our experience, ask for the opportunity to lead America, to lead the free world in this field. Now, my last point: We need your help. I'm not speaking now of the election. I'm speaking of this greater cause of saving the cause of peace and freedom. What's the most important thing we've got to have if we are going to win this struggle? Military strength is important, economic strength, diplomatic firmness, but, most of all, you know what is important? The ideals for which America stands, the ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago, ideals - they sound very simple; they're worth repeating - these are the things America must stand for if we are going to lead the world to victory without war, to peace, to the extension of freedom; our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our belief that the rights that men have for freedom do not come from men, but that they come from God and, therefore, cannot be taken away by man; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent; that all people have a right to be free. These are the things America must stand for in the world. These are the things that must come from you because they come from the churches; they come from the schools; they come from the homes of America. And I say to all of you, Democrats and Republicans alike: strengthen the moral fiber of this country. Strengthen the idealism of our young people. Let them realize what a privilege it is to live in America. Let them realize that America stands for more than might, that we stand for what is right in the world, and then the President of the United States will be able to lead the forces of freedom in the world to victory because he will have behind him a nation that stands for those great ideals that all the world wants. The people on both sides of the Iron Curtain want more than might. They want these great ideals for which we stand. And, so, it is this case that I present to you today. If you believe that ours is the leadership that America needs, that we have the experience that will keep the peace and extend freedom, that we're worthy of your support, it is on that basis that we ask the people of Montana to support us in this campaign. We say to you: We don't ask you to support us on the basis of a party label. We put it on a much higher plane. We put it on this basis: We say that if you believe that ours is the leadership that America needs, ours is the leadership that will move America forward at home, that will keep the peace abroad - if you believe that, then we ask for your support for our ticket nationally, for our candidates for the Senate, for the Congress and the State legislature, remembering as you work that you're working not just for a party, but for a bigger cause, that you're working for what's best for America and for the cause of freedom and peace throughout the world. Thank you very much.
Those of you who heard the television debate, the last one, will recall there was a difference in opinion toward that last of the debate as to the standard the people of America should apply in electing a President of the United States. My opponent suggested that the party that the man had should be a dominant feature in determining how you should vote, and I said, in answering that question, just the opposite. I said I was proud to be a member of my party, but I said that my study of history indicated that the American people in electing a President of the United States had traditionally not thought of party primarily, but they had thought of country. I say to you today that, as we enter this critical period of the sixties, it is not enough for Americans, be you Republicans or Democrats, to vote simply as your fathers or your grandfathers did. It isn't enough simply for you to vote for the party label; if you happen to be a Republican, to vote for me because I am one. I say that in this period in our history we must think not of the party first, but of America first - and it is on that basis that I present our case to you. I say that because America needs in this critical period and the world needs the best man that either party can produce to lead it. So, it's on that basis that I ask this great audience here to listen to what I have to say, not only now, but as you listen to my opponent as well, in these days between now and November 8. This must be the best decision that America can make, so all the American people must look deep within themselves and not make the easy decision - vote the way somebody else tells you to do; vote the way a label tells you to do, vote the way tradition tells you to do. You must look within yourselves; consider the men; consider their platforms, and make a decision for America. What does America need? What do we stand for? What do you want? It is to this point that I first address myself. I think we begin by saying that we Americans want progress. We want this Nation to move forward. That particularly is true out here in the West because our tradition has been one of progress. We have always moved to new frontiers and we have always looked for new frontiers; but, may I say, as we look for them and try to conquer them, we recognize that the way to do it is to develop the initiative of individual Americans. I say to you today that in this whole field of progress I am proud to stand on a program which I think will produce the greatest progress that America has ever had, greater than we've had in the last 4 years, greater than we've had in the last 8 years, that will not just stand where we are, but will build on what we have. This is what I stand for, and then I go further. I say to you that, whatever the issue may be, if we want better schools, we want better housing, we want progress in more jobs for more people at higher wages, we want to keep our dollar sound so we don't find our wages are eaten up by inflation or high prices, whatever the case might be, our programs are the ones that America needs that will produce progress. Now, obviously, my opponent says exactly the same thing. He says, "If you want progress in schools and housing and education and health and welfare, vote for my programs." So, this presents to you, the people, a problem. How do you decide it? How can you determine when two men, equally, it seems, devoted to their principles, equally believing that their programs are best, say we stand for programs that will produce progress? My answer is this: You don't have to rely simply on what we say. You look first at our record, and on our record I want to say that when you examine it you will find that the programs that we have had, the ones based on our philosophy, have not just talked about progress; they have produced it in the last 7½ years. Now, you heard the charge made that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. I ask you just to look at the city of Denver. I ask you to look at the surrounding territory. I ask you to go to any city in America, look at the new building, the new shopping centers, the new schools, the new hospitals, the new reclamation projects. My friends, anybody who says America has been standing still for the last 7½ years hasn't been traveling through America. He's been traveling some other country than this land. Now, just to lay it on the line, what he could more accurately have said was that America was grinding to a standstill when we took over in 1953, because what did we find then? We found that we were mired down in a war in Korea. We found that our economy was being shackled by controls. We found that our Government was shot through with corruption. As a matter of fact, the only significant growth that took place in the economy of America in the 7½ Truman years - and those are the policies that my opponent wants to go back to - was during the Korean war years. I also want to point out that that growth was accompanied by record inflation, of 50 percent increase in prices in 7½ years, and in the Eisenhower years - let's recognize it - we have had phenomenal growth, but we've had economic progress without war and with inflation held in check - and I say that's what America continues to want to have. Now, let me look at the philosophy. Why is it that I say that this program that we stand for has produced and will produce more progress than theirs? It's because our approach is altogether different. They say, whenever there's a problem, whether it's education or health, whether it's in the field of jobs or employment, that if there's a problem which needs to be solved, we go out to Washington; we set up a massive Washington program, we weaken the responsibility of the States; we take away the responsibility for the individuals, but Washington will do the job through its spending, through other programs. And, so, as we look at their programs, we find that they sound very good because we don't have to do anything. The States have to do less. Washington is going to do the job. What is our answer? Our answer is to start exactly at the opposite end of the spectrum. We say that in America the way to progress is not to start with the Federal Government and work down but to start with individuals and work up to the Federal Government. We say, then, that that's the reason we will make more progress than they will because we put responsibility on individuals rather than take it off. We strengthen the States rather than weaken them. We call upon all the energies of Americans, individual enterprise, State enterprise, local enterprise, and the Federal Government, and through this teamwork of effort we produce more than they do - and it will be that way in the future, just as it has been in the past. It's because all of their programs have the fatal defect of not being developed basically on faith in America and individual enterprise that they will not have the progress that we have. Now, there is one other difference I should point out, and this has often been mentioned to me, particularly by younger people who are concerned about voting. They come up and they say, "Mr. Nixon, you say your programs are more for progress in health and education and welfare, and this and the other thing, than your opponent. How can you say that when they'll spend more? Doesn't it mean when somebody says he's going to spend more for this program and that program, than you will that he's more for the people than you are?" Let me give you a very simple answer to it. Whose money is he going to be spending? Not Jack's money, but yours. And, so, you see, if we can get more progress, whether it's in schools or housing or welfare or in jobs or in reclamation, in any of these fields, through a Federal program which spends less and brings more out of individuals and more out of the State and local level, then I say the American people want that, and I say the very fact that my opponent's programs would spend billions of dollars more, would require raising prices, raising taxes or both, is a reason not to vote for them, but to vote against them and to vote for programs that will produce progress in the way that we have been moving in the last 7½ years and in which we will move even faster in the next 4 years. And now, may I turn to what is basically the most important issue of all. What could be more important than a job or a better school system? What could be more important than developing the great resources of the West, all of these things that I have been talking about? Of course, the answer is: More important than all these things is for every one of us and our children to be around to enjoy the good things we produce. And I say to you that the most important test that you must apply to the two candidates for the Presidency is this: Which of them is better qualified, by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? Now, in this field again you have the problem of testing and of choosing between two men, their experience and their background. I point first to our record, and in this area I know our record has been subjected to criticism. There are those who have criticized it, particularly in this political year, on the ground that our prestige is at an alltime low. We find that we have no friends throughout the world. Our military is becoming weaker. Our economy is becoming weaker. The Soviet Union is going to catch us. We're second rate in education, so on down the line. My friends, let's just lay it on the line as to what the facts are. As far as the record is concerned, all the criticism in the world cannot hide the truth, and the truth is that the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower because under his leadership we ended one war we have kept the Nation out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. But some may say, "What about our prestige, Mr. Nixon? Isn't it falling? Aren't we having problems in the world?" And the answer is: Yes; we're having problems, and we're going to continue to have them, but the question is, with the Communists on the move throughout the world, not whether you have problems. The question is how you deal with them. Do you avoid war on the one side or surrender on the other? And we have avoided both war and surrender in the last 7½ years, and we will continue to, with your help and your assistance, in the next 4 years. I think perhaps the most amusing comment that's been made in this whole field was what Senator Kennedy suggested a few days ago in New York, when he said, "You know, I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing, and I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing." He said, "I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." And all I can say in answer to that is this: If he would just stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. No, I'll admit that he hasn't been doing some of the things that Senator Kennedy has suggested. He hasn't been apologizing or expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for defending the security of the United States. And I know that he hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations like Mr. Khrushchev has, either. President Eisenhower has stood for peace. He's always been willing to go the extra mile, to negotiate, but he has also stood for principle, and that is what we must do - firmness without belligerence. Now, let us look at our qualifications. I cannot speak of my own appropriately, compare them with my opponent's, but I can certainly speak of my running mate's, and I'll say this about him: No man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job in my opinion in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge as our Ambassador to the United Nations. Why is that important? Because as Vice President he will work with me in developing and strengthening the instruments of peace like the United Nations. He will work with me and carry out assignments, whether in the Near East or other parts of the world, using those great talents of his for negotiation, on behalf of the cause of peace and on behalf of the cause of extending freedom. What do we offer you? Well, we offer you, first, our experience - 7 years working with the President of the United States. We offer you our experience in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev. We have both had the opportunity of sitting across the conference table from him. We have had the opportunity to know what kind of a man he is, and I will only say this: That we are men who, knowing what he is, will always see that America maintains the strength that it needs, because we know that here is one of the most ruthless men in the world. We know that he and his colleagues are determined to conquer the world, by any means, if necessary, and we know that, whatever we may have done, militarily, economically, that it isn't enough to stand pat on it. And I want to say this to this great audience today: I am proud of the record of this administration in making America the strongest nation in the world. I am proud of the record of this administration in making us the most prosperous nation and moving ahead economically. But, my friends, with the threat we face in the world we cannot stand still. We have got to increase our rate of growth. We have got to increase our strength. We have got to make America stronger constantly. Why? Because we're in a race, a race for survival, a race which Mr. Khrushchev has challenged us, and he said, "I'm going to overtake you, not only militarily, but particularly economically, in this nonmilitary area," in the battle for the uncommitted nations, which may well decide the whole struggle for the world. And that's why when I speak to audiences like this, I say it would be easy to say we're doing enough. It would be easy to say I stand on the record, but I say to you: No; we must move forward from here, and that's why I have advocated programs in science, programs in education that will see to it that we develop to the full the tremendous human resources of our country, see that no young man or woman of ability lacks the chance to get a higher education so that no young scientist or doctor or lawyer or minister will fail to be developed. We must see to it, for example, in the field of reclamation that we continue to move forward. And just let me say a word about that. There's been so much talk about what we have not done in this field that I'm going to welcome an opportunity right here in Colorado to answer some of the worst misrepresentations of this campaign. Now, first of all, it's been said, Gordon Allott was telling me on the way down in the car here today, that the Vice President has opposed the projects for Colorado because he's from California. Well, I would suggest that they're talking about the wrong man. Senator Kennedy was recorded against the upper Colorado, and I was for it, and it's about time that all the people in Colorado knew it. To show you how much he knows about this subject, he said in our first TV debate that the Soviet Union was going to catch us by 1975 in the production of hydroelectric power. To show you how foolish that statement is, Do you know what they would have to do to catch us? They'd just have to build eight Grand Coulee dams each year for 25 years to catch us. That's all. That's all. So, that shows you what he understands about it. No. We in the West know this problem, and I should point out that if you look at the record, 39 percent more new starts in this administration than we had in the previous one is an indication of what has been happening. I would simply point out that in this instance that we find that my opponent, rather than I, is a Johnny-come-lately in his support of reclamation in the West and in the State of Colorado. Now, why is all this necessary? Why do we develop the reclamation projects? Why must we develop our education and our science? One, because we must believe in America, and America must move always forward; but there's another more significant reason, the one that I've touched upon a moment ago, because we 're in a race and America can afford to do nothing less than to develop to the full, to the very fullest, all of the resources of this country, and if we develop them to the full, there is no question but that we can win this struggle in which we are engaged. Now, having spoken of these resources, however, may I say this final thing with regard to it: This means not just the Federal Government. It means also private enterprise. It means also local government. It means calling on all the resources of America, because if we say we're going to fight them just with government, we're meeting them on their own ground. The power of America is in its people, and that is where we're going to beat the Soviet Union every time. I close my remarks very appropriately, I think, with a reference to perhaps the most eloquent words uttered on this program today, the invocation. What possibly could an invocation have to do with the world's struggle? I have traveled a great deal in the world, as you know, 55 countries, on both sides of the Iron Curtain. I know the uncommitted Africans, the uncommitted Asians, and those in Latin America that are trying to decide which way to turn. It would be easy to tell you that if America were militarily strong and economically strong that that settles it all, but it doesn't. We must remember that in this great struggle what will be decisive in the final analysis will not be our military strength, and not our economic strength - they both will count - but what will be primarily decisive will be the strength of the things we believe in, our ideals. What are they? Our faith in God; dignity of men; our belief that the rights of men to freedom come not from men, but from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away by men; our belief that the ideals for which America stands belong not just to us, but belong to the whole world - and some might say: "But, Mr. Nixon, of what strength are such things as these when you are dealing with a ruthless dictator who speaks only of atheistic, gross materialism, who only has respect for power?" And you know what the answer is? The materialists and the militarists throughout the centuries and the tyrants have always underestimated the power of moral and spiritual strength. One hundred eighty years ago America was a weak country militarily and a weak country economically, but one of the strongest nations in the world. Why? Because we stood for something. We believed in the right things, things and ideals that are bigger than America, the ones that I have referred to, and it is this that we need in this struggle. And here you can help. Here all the people of America must draw upon their resources, because the kind of strength that I speak of, the strength of our ideals, must come from the churches, from the homes; it must come from the schools of America. And I say to all of you: Keep America strong militarily and economically, yes; but, above all, keep her idealism strong; see that our young people know what it means to be an American citizen; see that our faith is stronger ultimately than the Communist faith, because that is what will be decisive, and that is what the next President of the United States, above all, must carry with him in this battle. And, so, my friends, I say to you: This is our case. We say we stand for a strong America, for progress, but we stand for peace without surrender, but, above all, if you give us the opportunity, we believe we can give America and the free world the leadership that will win this struggle, and win it because America stands for the great ideals of freedom for which we came into the world to preserve, and which it is our destiny to extend. It is this case that I present to you today, and, with your support, we know that our instruments - and, above that, our ideals - will prevail, not only in America, but in the world. Thank you very much.
Speaking in this city, I want to talk about the great issues confronting this country, perhaps in a different tone, in a different concept, than you might have anticipated. It seems to me, as the Governor well indicated, we do face tremendous problems in the world today. I know that as we consider the issues confronting the American people we might find disagreement in this audience, or in the television or radio audiences, as to what is the most important issue, but I would say that after consideration all would agree that one issue stood out above all the rest, because we can have the best farm program, we can have the best housing program, the best educational program that we can possibly imagine, and they aren't going to make any difference if we aren't around to enjoy them. So I say to you tonight, the most important test, the sternest test, to which you must put the two candidates for the Presidency in this year, 1960, is this: Which of the two men is best qualified, by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace for America without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? Now, in speaking of that great issue, I first want to refer to the record, of which I am proud to be a part. I am a part of it, and my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, is a part of it. Incidentally, while I cannot, of course, appropriately refer to my qualifications, I certainly can refer to my colleague's, and I will say that I don't think any man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job than Henry Cabot Lodge as our representative to the U.N. in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom. As I have indicated, he and I both have had a part in the record of this administration. Therefore, we must assume responsibility for its mistakes. We also can take some credit for its successes. It has not been a perfect record in this or any other field, but we have had very, very great problems in the field of foreign policy, and when we look at the whole record, despite all the criticisms that have been made, I think the American people, regardless of party, are going to reach this conclusion, which I will now state: They will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for the fact that he got this country out of one war, that he has kept it out of others, and that we do have peace without surrender today in America and the world. Now, it would be very easy for Cabot Lodge and for me to simply stand on this record, to say that we have done very well in the past and that we will, therefore, just continue this on into the future. But today, or any time in the future, no one who is concerned about America, no one who is deeply concerned about the cause of peace and freedom can stand pat on this record or any other record, no matter how good it is, because the problem with which we are confronted in the world is one that is tremendous in scope, that is constantly increasing and one for which the United States must continually develop its programs. And I say tonight that, proud as I am of the record of our administration in the field of foreign policy, proud as I am of that record, we must build upon it. We must never be satisfied. We must never be complacent about our strength, and it is to that point that I particularly want to talk tonight. What kind of strength does America need in these critical years? How much strength do we have? What more will we be required to do in the period of the sixties if we are to keep the peace without surrender and if we are to extend freedom, which is our mission in the world? Well, first of all, in order to determine what America must do, we have to examine the kind of men with whom we are dealing. We have to look at them and we have to conclude at the outset that these men, Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues, do not react like the statesmen of the free world; and if there is one lesson that the next President of the United States must have in his mind above everything else it is that. Here is a man - and I know him from having sat across the conference table from him and having talked with him - here is a man, Mr. Khrushchev, representing the Communist empire, who has only one goal in mind, and that is not simply keeping his own country strong and prosperous and independent, but extending communism throughout the world. He says over and over again that he intends to conquer the world. He says at the present time that he intends to accomplish that end without war but he also admits that his ultimate goal is to dominate the world. So, as we judge Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues we must never take our minds off this obsession which will motivate every action, every word that he may utter. Now, having looked at him, we must then conclude what we must do. If here is a man who is determined to conquer the world, if here is a man who will use any means to accomplish this end, we must recognize he will not follow the rules of the game, that he will not react according to the traditional custom of Old World diplomacy or New World diplomacy, for that matter, outside of the Communist bloc. And so, these things are necessary, and I begin with the one which is the most obvious and with which we will have agreement, I am sure, in this audience and among all of those who listen. If we are to deal effectively with the threat which is confronting us in the world, America must continue to maintain the position militarily that it presently has - and that means that we must continue to be the strongest nation in the world militarily. I use the word "continue" advisedly, because we are the strongest nation in the world today; but I say further that America is going to have to make decisions in the years ahead to step up its military strength to meet every possible contingency, and whatever the cost may be we must be prepared to meet it - and I will tell you why. One, because, as the guardians of peace, we must be sure that we are the strongest in the world; and two, because we must never have any President of the United States in a position where he goes to an international conference, where he looks across the conference table at Mr. Khrushchev or any of his colleagues, and where the other man is able to say, "I am stronger than you are." So I pledge to you, first that in the next administration we will do whatever is necessary to increase America's strength so that we will always have an ultimate advantage of the type that I say is necessary. Now, with that military strength, we also have to have wise diplomacy, and that means again diplomacy that is geared to the conduct of the man and the men who face us. Again I think we can look to the past to see what kind of diplomacy will fit the bill. Look at President Eisenhower and at his conduct through the years of being firm on the one side but nonbelligerent on the other, of always being willing to go an extra mile to negotiate, but never being willing to trade away our freedom or the freedom of our friends. This is what America needs in the years ahead. Now, it would be easy to tell you tonight that there is an easy way at the diplomatic table to find peace, that we might get Mr. Khrushchev to treat us more nicely, for example, if we were to express regrets or apologize for some action or another that he might not like, that it might be easier to acquire peace if we were to do in the Pacific what has been suggested - give up a couple of little islands out there that the Communists have their eyes on. Let me say this. All of these suggestions are made by men of good will. All of them are made by men who want peace. The trouble is that they are made by men who do not understand what peace demands when you are dealing with a man like Khrushchev or Mao Tse-tung, because in dealing with men like this whenever you make a concession to them which they do not deserve, it only whets their appetite, it doesn't satisfy it. It is not the road to peace. It is the road to war or the road to surrender or both. So that is why the next President of the United States, difficult as it may be, must always stand firm, willing to concede if we get something in return, but never willing to give up principle or territory unless we are getting something in payment for it. This is the kind of policy which will work. It is the only kind of policy which I think can be adopted in meeting the Communist threat in the diplomatic area. Now, the next point that I make is related to the first two. If America is to be able to lead the free world effectively in these critical periods, we are not only going to have to be the strongest nation in the world militarily; we are not only going to have to have a firm and nonbelligerent diplomacy, but we also are going to have to see that the economy of this country continues to grow, continues to progress. Now, in that connection, let's also set the record straight. America has not been standing still for the last 7½ years, and anyone who suggests it has should simply travel around America and see. But let me also say this. While we have had great progress in these last 7½ years, again we can't stand fast where we are. We must move forward, developing our economy, seeing to it that our educational system explores the full talents of all of our young people, so that we do not waste a potential scientist, a potential leader in the law or politics or in religion or in any other career area. Because as America maintains it economic strength in this period, we cannot afford any leaks, we cannot afford for anybody to be left behind. That is why I have advocated programs - and will continue to advocate them - that will move America forward from where we are, that will increase our growth so that we can always maintain the advantage that we presently have, and it is a great advantage, over the Soviet bloc. Now in this connection there is a difference that should be pointed out in the approach that I offer and that which our opponents offer, and I think I can sum it up in a nutshell. There are those who suggest that the only way to move America forward economically - whether it's in getting better education or better housing or better health or better welfare, or whatever the case might be - is to turn to the Federal Government and to let the Federal Government take over the program lock, stock, and barrel, and take over also the money from the people to finance the program. Now, I say that the way to progress in America is not through starting with the Federal Government and working down to the people, but by starting with the people and working up to the Federal Government. Why do I say that? In this great audience there can certainly be no doubt, particularly among those of you who know the history of this area, you who came to new frontiers. Who were the pioneers of America?. They weren't people that were wards of government. They were people filled with individual enterprise and spirit, and we've got to keep that pioneering individual spirit strong in America if we're going to survive.  Government has its responsibility, the responsibility to do those things which the people or the States cannot do for themselves, but let us never forget that the greatest engine of progress ever developed has been the creative ability of 180 million free Americans - and that is what we must stimulate if we're going to have the progress that we want in this country.  Now, I have spoken of military strength, of economic strength, of firm diplomacy. I am sure that many in the audience might conclude: "Well, that ought to do it. If we're stronger militarily than the Communists, that means we can keep them from starting anything. If we have the firm diplomacy that the Vice President has described, that means that we don't need to worry about surrendering to the Communists, either in principle, territory, or people. And if we have a strong economy, that means that Mr. Khrushchev isn't going to make good on his boast that he's going to catch the United States and pass us economically" - as he boasted to me when I saw him in Moscow.  All of these things are important, but may I say to you that they are not the most important element of strength that America needs in this critical period. May I describe that most important element of strength by telling you what happened to my wife and me a year ago when we visited Warsaw. We had just been to the Soviet Union. We had seen Mr. Khrushchev. We had been in the heart of Siberia, in the Urals, and we flew to Warsaw after that. We arrived on a Sunday afternoon in this Communist country. The Communist government did not want us to have a big demonstration because Mr. Khrushchev had been there a couple of weeks before and they feared perhaps that there might be an unfavorable comparison, but the word gets around in a Communist country, or any dictatorial country, by word of mouth, and apparently had gone like wildfire all through the suburbs and the heart of the city, because on that Sunday afternoon there were a quarter of a million Poles on the streets of Warsaw. They were cheering, as you have cheered tonight, but they were doing more than that. They were shouting at the top of their voices, "Niech Zyje America" - "Long live America" - and then when the cars stopped in the middle of the town, they threw flowers into our car, hundreds and hundreds of bouquets of flowers, and I looked into their faces, and lots of them were smiling and laughing, in joy, but over half of them, men and women, grown men and women, were crying, with tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Not because I was famous or my wife was, because we were not as well known as President Eisenhower would have been if he had been there. Not because America was strong militarily and economically. Khrushchev had bragged about that kind of strength and they didn't give him that kind of welcome. No. It was because the people of Poland knew that America stood for something more than military strength, something more than the productivity and richness of our factories. They knew that America stood for moral and spiritual ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago, that those ideals are the things that America stands for - they stood for them - and those are the things, believe me, that make America the hope of the world today. What are they? Let me state them in just a few words: our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of man; our belief in the rights of all men to be free; our belief that the rights that men have to freedom, to equality of opportunity that these rights do not come from men, but that they come from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away by men; the right that all nations have to be independent, of all peoples to be free. These things we believe. These are the ideals for which America was founded. These are the ideals written into our Declaration of Independence and into our Constitution. These are the ideals that America came into the world not only to preserve for ourselves but to extend to people throughout the world - and this is what we must remember tonight. And so I say to you tonight we shall keep America strong militarily and economically, and we shall keep our diplomacy firm and nonbelligerent; but, most important of all, those who are the leaders of this country must recognize what America really stands for, and that message must be brought to the whole world, to people on both sides of the Iron Curtain, because the whole world wants to hear it, is hungry to hear it. In that connection, it would be easy for me simply to state that this kind of moral and spiritual strength that I describe can come simply by leadership of the President of the United States, but it does not come simply from a President or from a Governor or a Senator. It comes from the people. It comes from the schools, from the homes, from the churches of America. And so I can pledge to this great audience tonight, if I have the opportunity as a result of your decision on November 8, to give America strong leadership, to keep our economy strong, to keep our military strength up, to hold our ideals high. But the strength that we need, the strength that will prevail in this struggle must come from you, and so I say keep America strong at home. Keep her ideals strong. See that our young people grow up appreciating the privilege it is to be an American citizen. See that we all recognize that this struggle is not simply a test of arms or a test of strength. It is a test of faith. If we recognize that, we shall win, be cause we are on the right side. Thank you.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you, very much. Why don't we start this by giving a big hand to that Valley High School Band and chorus over there? [Cheers and applause.] I want you to know how much Pat and I have appreciated this wonderful welcome in this magnificent auditorium which I am for the first time having the opportunity to speak in. Tell you what I was doing in the back here was that there are lots of people outside, but they said for security reasons they couldn't let people sit in back of me. Let me tell you this. Whenever we can get a voter behind me or in front of me I want him there. So I said let them in. [Cheers and applause.] So I've asked them to get the people outside and let them sit in the back. And I'm sure you won't mind. If they don't mind my back, we'll get along fine. Now, Pat and I are delighted to be here for a number of reasons. You know, she was born in Nevada, and then came to California. And we were married there. And we've lived in California. She came when she was quite young, so she's virtually a native Californian. And I suppose this shouldn't be quoted in California, but as we were riding from the airport over to the auditorium, she said "You know, this is one of the most beautiful days I've ever seen. I just love this part of the country. We've got to come back here." [Applause.] And so, because you did give us one of the really magnificent days of the campaign - which we're not surprised. As a matter of fact, I mentioned it out at the airport. And somebody said, "It's always like this in Albuquerque." We thank you for that. We're a little late because we were stopped down at the university and had an opportunity to meet with some of the students there. But believe me, there is nothing that could be - I see some of them came over here - there is nothing that could be more gratifying than right at the noon hour in the heart of the day to have this record crowd here in the auditorium in Albuquerque. We thank you for coming. And I will say that we will always remember your reception, and your graciousness, and your thoughtfulness. Now I want you to know first how very proud I am to be with the men on this platform who are the candidates of my party in this State. I know every one of them. I know their records. I met them again at the airport again today. They're as fine a group of candidates as I have seen in any State. And I commend every one of them from the Governor, and the Senator, right down the line to the people of New Mexico, and to this great audience today. [Applause.] They've already been introduced. But I cannot resist the opportunity to say a word about my old friend Ed Mechem, because certainly having three times been Governor of this State you know him well. But, believe me, with the record that he has made he is a man who I know the people of New Mexico, regardless of party, will recognize can furnish the kind of government that they want. And, incidentally, I don't need to tell you he's a man of courage. Unlike his opponent, he isn't afraid to have a press conference. And may I say in that connection he ought to be elected certainly on that basis. [Cheers and applause.] And, of course, to our candidate for the Senate, Bill Colwes, I had the opportunity to meet him in Washington, when he first started this race. He came in; he said, "It's a tough race but I'm going to give them the fight of their lives." He's big enough. He's strong enough. He's articulate enough. And with your help he can do it. So let's get behind him and give them the fight of their lives. [Applause.) And to Ben Balcomb and to John Robb, our candidates for the Congress, you know them well. And, again, I commend them to you. I suppose some of you wonder, "Why does the Vice President when he's here campaigning for the Presidency, spend so much time talking about the candidate for Governor, and the candidate for the Senate, and the candidate for the Congress, and the other local candidates ? " - and the only reason I haven't mentioned them is that time will not permit it. I'll tell you why. You know, we Americans get tremendously excited about the presidential campaign. Everybody wants to see the man that might be the next President. But it's just terribly hard to get people excited about the candidates for even Governor or Senator, and for the Congress, and on down the line. You just can't get people to work. And you know how hard it is. And I just want to tell you every office is important. Everyone is important. And I urge everyone of you, if you believe in these candidates, work just as hard for them as you do for me. Because you want good government from top to bottom. That's why I mention them. I believe in them as men, but also they deserve your support. And I trust, particularly, these young people here will never forget what I have said. Remember, government starts at the local level. And the stronger and better it is there, the stronger and better it is going to be at the national level. So help make it the best. Help make it the best by running for office. But help make it best by supporting good men and good women for office, as the case might be. [Applause.] Now I want to come to the heart of my message today. In our television debate, the second one that many of you perhaps heard, as you recall, Senator Kennedy and I had several disagreements. One toward the last that you may recall. The question which arose was, "What should the American people use as an index in electing a President? Should the party count, or should the man count?" And, while the questions were and the answers were longer, than I can recite at the present time, in essence Senator Kennedy indicated that he believed that the party was important, and primarily important. And I indicated then, and I indicate to you now what I believe. I believe that when we elect the President of the United States, and particularly when we elect one in the year 1960 in which the next President will not only be the leader of this country, but the leader of the free world, it isn't enough to vote simply as your fathers and your grandfathers did. It isn't enough to vote just simply for the party label. We must vote for the best man, whether he was a Democrat or a Republican. America needs nothing but the best. And that's the basis that I present our case to you. [Applause.] And so, I direct my message today to the Republicans in this audience, to the independents in this audience, and to the Democrats in this audience, and to the Republicans, to the Democrats, and Independents listening on television and on radio. I say this is a decision that the American people must make correctly. And you must not make it simply blindly on voting some way somebody else tells you to vote. I say, listen to the candidates, compare their records, see where they stand, and select the man and the men for President and Vice President that America needs. [Applause.] Now if I may turn to the test that I think the American people should apply in determining what leadership America needs. And here we ask ourselves always the question: What do we want? What do we Americans want in this period of the 1960's? Well, first of all, we want progress. We want to move forward. We want better schools, and better housing, better medical care for our children than we had for ourselves. Here in the West we want to develop our tremendous natural resources through reclamation projects. [Applause.] And all of us who are wage earners, and that's most Americans, about 68 million, want better jobs at high wages. And the housewives also not only want the higher wages, but they want the prices kept within reason so that it all isn't eaten up by inflation. [Applause.] And, so, you expect me to say, and I do tell you today, that I am proud to be running on a platform, and standing for the record, and also standing for programs that will produce progress in all these fields. Better schools for Americans. Not only better schools, but a program in higher education where every young man and young woman in this country who has the ability to go to college is not denied that ability simply because he does not have the money to go. Why should that be necessary? Not simply because we're doing a favor to the young person, but because America in this critical year of the 1960's cannot afford to waste the talents of any one of our young people. [Applause.] For example, the potential young scientists, or young engineers, or doctors, or lawyers, or religious leaders, those who should go to college ought to go to college. How do we propose to do it? Well, it would be easy to say, "Well, the easy thing is just to have the Federal Government take over." But that isn't the best way. Federal Government has responsibility, yes. Responsibility to assist the universities, private and public, to develop the facilities which are needed for our increasing college population. But it's more than that. We need loan programs which we presently have for students who need loans to go to college. We need scholarship programs for those students who cannot afford to go to college, and who prove exceptional ability. But, in addition to that, we need something else which I'm sure you will approve. I say that the millions of families in this country who are saving in order to send their youngsters to college ought to be able to take a tax credit or deduction for those expenses so that they could send their youngsters to college and to the university. [Applause.] Now here's a program in the field of higher education. I spelled it out to give you an example of an approach. I could give examples in medical care, in housing, in all the other fields. But I could only summarize by saying this. I do stand for programs. And our party stands for programs that I submit to you will move America forward, move her faster than she's been traveling, and move her far more faster and far more forward than will the program of my opponent. Now, of course, he'll tell you just the same things. He'll say he stands for all these things, and that he's going to move us forward. And, so, what predicament does that leave the poor voter in? Here's Nixon says one thing, and Kennedy says the other. They both are for these goals of housing, and education, and health, and welfare. Who's going to do it? And may I say you don't have to rely on just what we say. You can look at our records first. You can look at our programs second. And then, you can make up your minds. First on the record: You know, it's been said over and over again by our opponents that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. Well let me say this. Anybody who says America has been standing still hasn't been traveling around America for the last 7½ years. [Applause.] I would just ask him to come to Albuquerque. From the last time I was here - and I see the new buildings. They haven't been standing still. [Applause.] You see, the trouble with those people who get this obsession about America standing still is that they're blinded. They only look at what Government does. They don't see what the real power of America does. And that isn't Government, that 180 million free Americans. [Applause.] So, I say to you, that on the record we have built more schools in our 7 years than they built in the previous 7 years. And our opponents want to go back to the same programs that we left then. And I say we're not going to let them do it, because America had enough of them then, and they don't want any more of them now. [Applause.] Whatever you want to name, more schools, more housing more highways, built in our 7 years than in their 7 years. Jobs. More jobs. Wages? Higher wages, and higher real wages. Inflation? Went up 50 percent prices did in the Truman years. Held to 10 percent in these years. Whatever test you want, we have done better than they did. And our policies will work where theirs won't. What about the West? What about reclamation? And let me knock down one bit of nonsense that's been parried around here so often. In the field of reclamation you hear it said, "But we have had no new starts. We've been standing still in the field of reclamation." Listen. One dollar out of every four that has been invested in reclamation has been invested in the 7 Eisenhower years - the greatest progress that we've ever had in the history of this country. And compare it with the Truman years, and believe me you'll find something. New starts? Well, we've had 30 percent more new starts in this administration than in their administration. And, so, I say let's go forward with that kind of a policy, and not back to the stagnation that we left in 1953. [Applause.] And, so, I again say, we will move America forward. We will develop the resources of the West. We will build the schools. We will do all these things. How will we do them? How do we differ in philosophy? And here, again, there is a basic difference which I have already implied, but which I emphasize again. The difference is in approach. Our opponents say, because of their obsession about Government, and particularly the Federal Government, nobody can do anything right except the Federal Government. They say that every time there's a problem we'll run over to Washington and we'll set up a huge Government program. And the Government will take over the responsibilities. We will weaken the responsibilities of the States. We will take away the responsibilities from the individual. Don't worry about it, because Uncle Sam's going to take it over. That's their solution. You know, it sounds awfully good. It makes it awfully easy. The American people don't have to do much. All they have to do is to turn their money over to Washington and let them spend it for you. That's all. Now. [Applause.] Now. What is our answer? In effect, they say that the way to progress is to start with the Federal Government and work down to the people. We say that's exactly the wrong way. We say the way to progress in America is not to start with the Federal Government and work down to the people, but to start with the American people and work up to the Federal Government. [Applause.] And it's because our programs will stimulate individual enterprise, it's because our programs will develop the resources of this country - just to give you one example in the field of individual enterprise, to show you again their obsession with, and their lack of faith in individual enterprise: Take this very technical matter called the depletion allowance. You know something about it. I know a great deal about it coming from the State of California. And you will find that they have hedged on this in their platform. They say they're going to reduce it. And, of course, their two candidates can't agree, because Mr. Johnson has a little problem on that in Texas with some of his friends down there. [Laughter.] But let me tell you about it. You know people say, "Well, Mr. Nixon, why in the world don't you say 'let's reduce this depletion allowance and increase the taxes on these oil men.' What do you care about a few rich oil men?" Let me tell you this. What I'm concerned about is not making a few oil men rich, I want to make America rich. That's why we have the depletion allowance, and that's why we do encourage this kind of activity. [Applause.] So, if New Mexico wants to move forward in this area, here's the way. We have faith in individual enterprise. We will develop the resources, and we will allow you to develop them, too, through the kind of tax policies that America and New Mexico needs. One other difference. And this is one that is sometimes hard to explain to particularly younger voters. They say to me, "Now, Mr. Nixon, you say that you are more for health, and education, and all of these things that you have been describing here, than your opponents are. How can you say that when they say that they're going to spend more? Doesn't it really mean that when they get up and say: "Look, they're going to spend billions more," and I can see that, "they're going to spend billions more than you will. When they say that, doesn't that prove they are more for the people, and more for progress than you are?" And, you know, there's a very simple answer to that. And that's just to think for a minute whose money they're spending. I can assure you it isn't mine - I don't have that kind of money. And it isn't Jack's either. It's your money. It's your money - that's what the American people have got to bear in mind. [Applause.] And, so, we must recognize that we are confronted here with programs of the opposition which if enacted into law would raise taxes; they will raise prices, or both. We offer programs which cost billions less, but which will do more. And we say on that basis America will move forward with us, and will not turn to them. Now, if I can turn to one other issue, and the last one and the most important one of all. Again, what could be more important, some might ask, than jobs, housing, medical care, schools. And, of course, what could be more important is to be around to enjoy all the good things we have in this country. And I say to you today that the most important qualification that the next President of the United States must have is this. Which of the two men for the Presidency is best qualified by experience, by background, and judgment to keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? This is the great question that you must answer. [Applause.] Now, on this issue, again you do not have to take our words for it. You could look first at our record. And as far as that record is concerned, just let me say this. New Mexico voted for President Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956. And I say that all the criticism that has been flung at his administration in the field of foreign policy will not obscure the solid truth that you know, and the people of America know. That under his leadership, we got the United States out of one war, we've kept her out of others, and we do have peace without surrender today, and we want to continue it. [Applause.] And so, now you turn to the candidates and you turn to the future. I want to make it clear none of us can rest on this record, and I cannot stand on it, we're going to build on it. Because the threat to peace and freedom is as great as any that ever existed in the history of the world. And that means we must develop programs militarily, economically, and otherwise which will enable the United States to be as she has been, the guardian of peace; and also to be the champion of freedom and liberty for all men throughout the world. These things, then, I stand for. These things I believe my colleague and I can provide for the people of the United States and the world. Experience? I cannot refer to my own, appropriately, but I can refer to my colleague's. And I'll say this about him. I don't think any man in the world has had more experience, or could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our candidate for Vice President. [Applause.] And, so, you must examine us. Here are two men, both of whom for 7½ years have worked with the President in this cause. Both of whom know Mr. Khrushchev. Both of whom have sat down across the conference table from him. Both of whom have had great experience in this whole field of studying the Communist movement and seeing it in action. This you must consider. You know, oftentimes when you talk about this whole area of experience, people say: Well, one man has the same amount of experience as the other, because they both spent 14 years in Washington. But, my friends, it isn't how many years, but what you did in those years that counts. And that's the thing you've got to bear in mind. [Applause.] And, so, I tell you what I know from having sat opposite this man who threatens the peace of the world, and his colleagues. One, we will keep America the strongest nation in the world. We will increase our strength, and keep it at whatever level is necessary so that we can always be in a position to say to Mr. Khrushchev: "If you start anything you will be destroyed." This we must do. [Applause.] Second. We've got to see that this economy moves along, so that we maintain the massive lead that we have over the Communists at the present time. Third. We've got to accompany our diplomatic strength, and our military strength - we've got to accompany that with diplomatic policies that not only are strong, but that are wise; and that, again, have in mind the kind of a man that we're dealing with. And here may I say that I just had the opportunity to read this morning in the paper of a statement that Senator Kennedy made yesterday about a couple of islands far off in the Pacific. Some of you may never have heard of them, but you will be hearing a lot about them in the next few weeks and months because they have become a symbol, a major issue in the Presidential campaign. And I'll tell you why. Let me take you back 10 years. You remember the war in Korea. And that war, in my opinion, and in the opinion of many who were observers, was brought on, and in effect invited, because of a very unfortunate statement made by Secretary of State Acheson, to the effect that Korea was outside the defense zone of the United States. That is what his remarks led up to and meant. Now, a lot of people, I'm sure, when he said that, thought "Well, good. That means we're not going to get into a war over that land far over there." But it didn't work out that way, did it? The Communists took him at his word, and they marched in. And when they marched in, we had to go in, in one of the bloodiest and costliest wars in history. And I say to you at the present time, Americans have learned their lesson, and they're not going to make the mistake, again, of giving up territory in advance to communism anyplace in the world. [Applause.] But people say, "But, Mr. Nixon, we want peace." And my answer is you're not going to get peace, and you're not going to get freedom by naive statements which in effect invite the Communists to take over anywhere, at any time. You recall the television debate when Senator Kennedy said, "We ought to take these two little islands off of Formosa, and near the Chinese mainland, and we should give them up." In effect, force our Nationalist allies to give them up. And, apparently, the implication of his remark was that if we did that we wouldn't get into a war about these two islands. And now, of late, he has used the contemptuous phrase "These are a couple of worthless rocks in the Pacific." And so we'll give them up. "Worthless rocks." Just a few people. But may I say that kind of woolly thinking is dangerous for America, it's dangerous for world peace. You know what we have to realize. We can't run backward and win over communism, and we have to win over communism, and not just hold the line against communism around the world. [Applause.]  I want to make it clear that I oppose handing over to the Communists 1 inch of free territory. And I want to say why. It's because I'm for peace, and for freedom that I oppose handing it over. Because when you hand over the territory, it does not lead to peace. It does not lead, certainly, to freedom, it gives it up. But it leads either to war or surrender, or both. And that is why we must stand for freedom. We must not give an inch of territory, as I have indicated.  In 1953, I think the American people said once and for all that they were tired of policies that had led to the war in Korea. I think they left them. Now is the time to mount an offensive for freedom, to advance the cause of freedom, and not to return to a policy of retreat and defeat. But then, I know that some of you may have read the statement, "but these two islands over here are indefensible." My friends, if the test of what America will defend is whether an area is defensible or not, may I say that we had better get off of the face of the globe. What about Berlin? Berlin - there isn't even 16 miles as there is between Quemoy and Matsu and the Communists there. The Communists completely surround it. From a military standpoint it's completely cut off from the communications except by air with our own forces. And yet, I say to you, the people of the United States, simply because Berlin is tremendously difficult to defend are not going to say in advance we're going to give up this island of freedom with 2,500,000 Germans. We can't do that. The people of free Berlin - because if we give up freedom there, then it will mean that they will simply ask for more, and it will go so on down the line. [Applause.] All that I can say in conclusion is that this soothing sirup kind of talk: Give up the little islands. Let the Communists have it and then we'll have peace. Maybe the Senator may believe, or his advisers may believe that this is a cheap and easy way to keep peace. That it might advance his candidacy. I just want to say one thing very clearly today. I have seen the world. I have seen what communism does to people behind the Iron Curtain. I have seen a quarter of a million Poles in the streets of Warsaw, half of them crying with tears running down their cheeks when my wife and I drove through the streets because we represented freedom to a people who wanted freedom and didn't have it. I have seen what it means. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I think I know what his colleague Mao Tse-tung is also like. And I know as I stand here that the road to war, the road to surrender is the very kind of woolly thinking which says "Just a couple of rocks in the Pacific. Let them go. This will bring us peace." And I am going to tell you, tonight, that regardless of the political consequences I intend to fight at every opportunity any return to the naive and woolly policies which led to the loss of China and to the war in Korea. And I'm going to do it throughout. [Applause.] My time is up, and I again express my appreciation to you. But may I conclude with this last word. I have spoken of our military strength, our economic strength, the necessity for a firm diplomacy. I am convinced that that kind of leadership can keep the peace without surrender. I am convinced that that's what Mr. Khrushchev respects. And we must have that from him. But, my friends, we need more than that to win this struggle. And that means that we need idealism, a flaming idealism. I saw every place I went in Russia signs "Work for the victory of communism." We have to realize in this country what America really stands for. You know what it is? Not just military might, and economic strength, but for great ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. Our faith in God. Our belief in the dignity of all men. Our belief that the rights that men have, the rights of equality of opportunity, that these rights come from God, that they cannot be taken away from them by men. Our belief that the rights that Americans have for freedom belong not just to ourselves, but to the whole world. These things we must feel deeply, we must believe deeply. And these beliefs must come not just from my stating it, they must come from the hearts and minds of our people. They must he developed in the churches, in the schools, in the homes of America. And I say to you as I leave this city today, that I ask you not only to work in this election for our cause, if you believe in it, but I ask you work to make America a shining ideal for all the world to see, of equality of opportunity of all. See to it that the young people of America have a flaming patriotism, an idealism and understanding of what this country really means. This is what we're going to need if we're going to match up to and defeat the forces of slavery. I have confidence that we will win because we're on the right side. But it isn't enough just to be right. You've got to have faith. You must work harder. You must believe more deeply. And will you help us work harder, and believe more deeply than the enemies of freedom abroad? Thank you, very much. [Applause.]
Now, let me tell you what I think you should have in mind - you, your friends, and all of those with whom you work - as you judge how you should vote on November 8. All of you who recall our last television debate will recall we had a few disagreements, and one toward the last in particular will be of interest. You remember the question was raised as to whether in an election this year we should be thinking primarily of the party or of the man, and coming down to the simple answers, Senator Kennedy suggested it was the party that was important, and my answer was the one that I gave then and that I will give to you again now. I say that in this election, 1960, for the Presidency of the United States, the issues are so important, the need for finding the best man, regardless of party, is so important, that what should come first is not our party, but America, the Nation, and that is the way we present our case. And I present the case for Cabot Lodge and myself on that basis. We say: Examine our experience and our background and qualifications, and we ask for the support of the American people only if you believe we are the ones the Nation needs, only if you believe, regardless of your party, that this is what America needs, and I realize that in 1952 and 1956 millions of Democrats joined with Republicans and Independents to elect our ticket, and I predict this year, as I see what is happening in California, in New York, in Pennsylvania, in the South and the North and the East and the West again that millions of Democrats and Independents will join with Republicans in electing our ticket, because they think it is the best for the Nation and for America in this critical period. I would like to have the time to tell you all the things that I believe we can and should do for this Nation in the next 4 years. I will summarize in just a word: First, we recognize that the major issue overriding all the rest is that the next President will have the responsibility of keeping the peace without surrender for America and for the world. Now, it isn't appropriate for me to comment on my own qualifications in that respect, but I do have a right to say something about my running mate, and I will say this: That I don't believe that any man in the world has had more experience or could have done a better job than he has in representing us at the United Nations and in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom. And I say to you that we will work together, work together in that cause. Now, what can you expect from us? And this I want you to listen to very carefully. We are men who know what peace demands in this age. We are men who know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat down across the table from him. We've had the opportunity to know the ruthless fanaticism which dominates his every move, and, therefore, that means that we will insist that America have the strength militarily, the strength economically, the strength in all areas, that we will be able to represent America abroad and never be in a position where we are weaker than those who threaten peace and freedom, and I pledge to you that America will continue to be, whatever the cost, the strongest nation in the world, and this all Americans want. We will couple that strength with seeing that our economy moves forward, moves forward so that Mr. Khrushchev can never realize his boast of catching us or passing us, and he never will, believe me, provided we remain true to the great principles that made America the country that it is today. And also I tell you that we will couple our strength, military and economic, with something else. We will couple it with a firm diplomacy. We will always go the extra mile, as President Eisenhower has, to negotiate for peace; but we will remember, in dealing with this man, that the road of concessions, making a concession without getting one in return, is not the road to peace. It is the road to surrender or the road to war. And whether it is Quemoy or Matsu in the Pacific, or whether it is expressing regrets at Paris, I say we're not going to have any woolly, fuzzy thinking in the next administration with regard to what the United States is doing. And I say to you, too, that I say all these things because I know this is the road to peace, and I know that those who advocate the other policies, well intentioned as they may be or intended to be, will make the mistake of giving in on these great principles, or making concessions, and will not gain what they want or think they want. They will only whet the appetite of the dictator, and it will lead us down that road that we all do not want to travel. And, so, these things we pledge to you. And then the last thing I would say is more of a personal note. I suppose all of you who are here - and there are many in this audience that Pat and I know personally; we've campaigned this great valley, all over this State, and there must be literally thousands whom we've shaken hands with or who have worked in other campaigns - I suppose some of you wonder what you think about when you travel over the country, and I would like to tell you what I thought about tonight. We looked down on Los Angeles, one of those clear, smogless nights. We saw the lights of all the homes, and you know what I thought about We thought of the future of all the children in those homes. We thought of the responsibility of the next President of the United States to see that they have a better life than even we have had, to see that they grow up in a world of peace and freedom, to see that we hand on to them our heritage even better than we received it from our fathers. This we thought of, and then, looking back over the campaign, there are memories, memories which will stay with us all our lives. I remember a little girl in the lobby at 8 o'clock in the morning in --------, Nebr. As we were coming down - she was about 8 years of age - she came up to me and she said, "Mr. Nixon, I hope you make President." And she says, "You know what I do? I make a wish for you every time I go under a bridge." And I think of all the little girls or little boys making a wish every time they go under a bridge, the most precious thing they could give up, because they have confidence and faith in what they believe we stand for. I remember a woman who had just celebrated her hundredth birthday. She was in a wheelchair. I shook hands with her and, speaking in a very clear voice, out in Wisconsin, she said to me, "Mn Nixon, this is probably the last time I will ever vote. I think it is the most important vote I will ever cast. I am casting it for you." What do you think? What does a man think when he hears things like this? I'll tell you what you think. We remember the people from whom we came. We remember the responsibilities that we have. We think of the really great privilege it is to live in this country, and I can only say to you this: I would like to declare: "This is a time for greatness and I am the great man of the times," but I cannot say that. Greatness is not something that comes from a man's ambition. Greatness is not something that is written on a campaign billboard. Greatness is something that comes from people in a free country, and only as a leader comes from those people, only as he represents their highest aspirations, their highest ideals, their greatest hopes, can he hope even to be worthy of the name great. And I only say to you, my friends, here in California, that I hope that in these months ahead, I can represent those ideals that are deepest in your hearts, the ideals that have made America the great country that it is. If I can do this, then I will be worthy of your trust - and that is my deepest hope and deepest prayer. Thank you very much.
Now, if I might, I would like to give you a report as to how this campaign is going. A few days ago in Boston, the home State and the home city of our opponent, we had a big surprise. We didn't expect a big crowd in the streets, and yet a quarter of a million people turned out in the rain, in Boston, to welcome us on that occasion. In Philadelphia, there were a half a million on the streets; in Cleveland, 275,000; today in Albuquerque - a record crowd there in the middle of the day; at Salt Lake City last night the same. All over the Nation - all over the Nation - we find crowds at record heights, and here in San Diego this tremendous outpouring of people. Now, why? It would be easy for me to conclude that the reason is you simply want to see me as an individual, but I know that isn't the case. I know the reason you are here, the reason the crowds in this campaign throughout the Nation, north, east, west, and south, are bigger than they've ever been is that the American people know that this is one of the most important elections in history. They realize that the decision they make - the American people know, just as all of you here realize, that the decision you make - on November the 8th could be the most important decision you'll ever make in your life, and that is why people come out - Republicans, Democrats, and Independents - all Americans - trying to make an intelligent decision about this election. And, so, the first question which comes to your mind and mine is this: How should you judge the two candidates for the Presidency, the two candidates for the Vice Presidency? What should your standard be? Now, in this last television debate that I'm sure some of you must have heard, there was a discussion of that particular point. There was a discussion of that particular point, and you recall a difference of principle expressed. My opponent indicated, when the question was asked as to whether it should be the party or the man who should govern, he said the emphasis should be on the party. My answer then and my answer now is this: That the decision as to what leadership America and the free world should have in this year, 1960, is so important, so vital, that it isn't enough simply to vote as your grandfather and your father did. It isn't enough simply to vote according to the party label you wear and I happen to wear or my opponent wears. Our decision should not be on the basis of the party, but it should be solely on the basis of which man can best lead America - and let that be the decision in this campaign. And that is the basis that I present the case to you as I have presented it to the North, the East, the West, and the South in this campaign. I say to the people: Judge me, judge my opponent, judge my colleague, my running mate, and his opponent on the basis of our experience, our background, our judgment, our qualifications to lead America, to lead the free world in this great critical period of our history. And, so, then we turn to what are the issues of the campaign, and, of course, there are many, many on which we differ, but I can tell you that there is one issue which overrides all the rest. I can tell you that whether you're in Hawaii, in the far, far West, or in Maine, or as they call it, down East, whether you're in the South, in Atlanta, or up in the Northeast or the Northwest, that everywhere everybody realizes that the most important issue to be decided in this election is this: Which of the candidates for the Presidency can best keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? Tonight I want to direct my remarks to that issue primarily, because all the rest pale into insignificance compared with it. We can have the best jobs and the best highways and the best health programs, the best schools, and it won't make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. So, therefore, let us see what America must do, what kind of leadership America must have if we're going to keep the peace and if we're going to keep it without surrender and if we are going to extend freedom throughout the world. These are the objectives to which I speak tonight. Now, first, you must judge us by our records, and on the record it should be pointed out that my colleague and I for 7½ years have sat in the high councils of this administration, in the Cabinet, in the Security Council. We have discussed with the President and participated in the decisions on Quemoy and Matsu, Lebanon, the other great decisions that have been made in this past 7½ years. And, so, this record you must judge us by, and you must hold us accountable for it. And what is this record and how should the American people judge it? Well, let me say this: There has been a great deal of criticism of the record, and that is proper, if the criticism is responsible, but let me say this: That, as far as all the criticism is concerned, of the leadership of this administration in the field of foreign policy, it cannot obscure a fact for which all of the American people will be eternally grateful, and that is this: That under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got the Nation out of one war; we've kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. And, so, there is the record in a nutshell. Do we stand there? No. We don't stand on it because a record is never something to stand on, but something to build on. We don't stand where we are because the threat to peace and freedom is so great and is increasing around the world, and, therefore, we must develop more strength than we have. We must develop firmer policies even than we have to keep this peace that we want and to extend freedom. And, so, may I say in this connection that, as we consider the record and as we consider the future, we must also consider the criticisms of the present, and I realize that some of you have been reading the stories and the complaints to the effect that America has been slipping; America has been losing its prestige; it has reached an alltime low. We're not liked any more in the world, and it's because of the mistakes we've been making. In fact, it was all summed up the other day when my opponent made a speech in upper New York State in which he said this: He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me say this: If he would quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, I'll have to admit he hasn't been doing some of the things that Senator Kennedy wanted him to do. He didn't apologize or express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev at the Paris Conference. And I can assure you that, under no circumstances, can any President of the United States ever apologize or express regrets for defending the security of the United States against surprise attack. No, President Eisenhower hasn't been doing some other things that Mr. Khrushchev has been doing. He hasn't been making a fool of himself in the United Nations - and we can thank God for that. He hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo as Mr. Khrushchev has. No. He has done the less spectacular thing, but the right thing - and that is working through the United Nations, attempting to save the independence and freedom of this new state in Africa. This is what our President has been doing, and this is what America must continue to do - work for the cause of peace and freedom through the instruments of freedom, and this, I am sure, the American people have approved and will continue to approve in the future as far as our leadership is concerned. But, so much for the past and the present. What experience, what background do my colleague and I offer for the future? Well, first of all, it would be inappropriate for me to refer to my own experience, but I can refer to my colleague's, and I'll say this: No man in the world today, I don't believe, has had more experience and no one could have done a better job in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than our candidate for Vice President, Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. And I can assure you that together we will work in this cause. We will work to strengthen the instruments of freedom like the United Nations; we will work to strengthen the instruments of peace like the Organization of American States; we will work together in standing firmly for the right throughout the world - and this is the kind of leadership we believe America wants. May I say, too, we offer this: We have had this experience, but, in addition, we have had another kind of experience. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We both have sat down across the conference table from him. We both have had the opportunity to know what kind of a man he is, that he is ruthless, that he does not follow the rules of the game that people in the free world would follow, that, therefore, you cannot conduct your foreign policy, you cannot conduct your diplomacy in the same way you conduct it in dealing with men like Mr. Adenauer and Mr. Nehru or Prime Minister de Gaulle or others you may have heard about. All of these things we know, because we know the man, and that means that with us you can be sure of one thing: There will be no woolly, fuzzy, softheaded thinking about Mr. Khrushchev in this next administration. Why do I emphasize this? Because this is the way to keep the peace. This is the only way to keep the peace when you're dealing with a dictator. And, so, now, what programs must we support if we are to keep the peace? I begin with the most obvious, one that here in this great defense center of San Diego, all of you will approve and understand, and it is that America today is the strongest nation in the world, but I hasten to add - I hasten to add - that, while no one should downgrade our strength and that to do so is a disservice to America, while no one should downgrade it, it would be utter folly for us to stand pat on the present levels of strength in view of Mr. Khrushchev's conduct at the summit conference. So, what should we do? And I want you to know the principles that I believe we must follow in this period ahead. There must be no dollar sign on what we are willing to spend to keep America the strongest nation in the world. Second, as I indicated in our television debate, we must expect that our defense expenditures will be going up probably rather than going down in the period immediately ahead of us. That is because we will at all times be prepared to exploit technological breakthroughs. We cannot rely exclusively on an existing weapon, as the last administration relied on the manned bomber, when new weapons, such as ICBM's threaten to make them obsolete. For example, in this field, we have to develop, with all possible speed, the antimissile missile, and yet as we develop these new weapons, we must always beware of making the transition precipitously, because, until you have the new weapons systems, until they have been proven, until all the bugs, including those of operational suitability, are clearly gone, we've got to continue the older weapons in a high state of readiness. And, so, what does this mean? It means we cannot abandon development of the manned bomber, the fighter, Simply because the missiles are dominating the technological advance, and this means cost, but America, I know, is ready to pay it, ready to pay it because we are the guardians of peace, and as the guardians of peace, we must be the strongest in the world, and we will continue to be that in the years ahead if we follow these guidelines that I have laid down. But, in addition to this kind of strength, we also need small war capability, having in mind the fact that the advance by communism by the sword, whether the sword be represented by atomic missiles or infantrymen, armed with automatic weapons and modern battlefield equipment and airlift - in either case America must be prepared. And, so, I say to you that, as we look at this program, I am confident the American people are willing to do what is necessary, even if it should mean more taxes in the future, to see that we maintain this strength; but may I say one other thing: We also are going to see that we get a dollar's worth for every dollar that we spend. We cannot tolerate duplication, and we will not allow petty interservice rivalry to bleed the sinews of strength of the United States. This is what we must have. And, so, first, then, America's military strength - first in the world. What else must we have? Our economy must move forward. It has been moving forward, may I say at the out set. I know the charge has been made that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. My friends, whoever says that hasn't been traveling through America. He's been visiting some other country, I can assure you, because in these past 7½ years we have moved forward in the building of schools and hospitals and highways, in the development of our economy, far more than we moved in the 7 years which preceded it. And I say to you that we will move forward even more, and we must move forward even more, because we're in a race, a race in which we're challenged by ruthless men, men who are driving millions of people unmercifully as slaves, and America must move forward at maximum speed, and that is why we have advocated programs in science, in education, which will move the American economy forward. And some of you may ask: "But, Mr. Nixon, how do your programs differ from those of your opponent? He says he wants America to move forward, too." And my answer is simply this: Ours will work and his won't, and I prove it, first, by the record. He offers programs which are the same policies that we left in 1953, and we don't want to go back to what we left with Harry Truman in 1953. Why will ours work where his won't? I'll tell you why. Because he says that the solution to all problems is to turn the matter over to the Federal Government, and then to work down to the people, and we say that the way to progress in America is not to lose faith in the individual, and that the way to progress is not to start with the Federal Government at the top, but start with the people and work up to the Federal Government, that this is the way to progress. Of course, I recognize that our opponents say: "But, look, we're more for progress than Mr. Nixon and his party because we will spend more for progress. We'll spend more than they will in every field." And, my friends, when we consider this, just remember this: Whose money will they be spending? After all, it isn't Jack's money. It's your money they're going to be spending. And I say to you that where we have programs that will move America forward by tapping all the resources of this country, and will do it by spending less rather than by spending more, that Americans will support it, and your choice is clear here. They offer programs which will raise taxes, which will raise prices inevitably, in order to put them into effect, and we offer programs in this domestic field which will move America forward, but which will do so not simply by huge Federal spending, but by tapping the real strength of America, and that's the creative ability of 180 million free American citizens. Now, we have military strength, economic strength. What else do we need in this critical period of the sixties? All the strength in the world, militarily and economically, will mean nothing at all in this struggle if we don't have the diplomacy, the wisdom, in the high councils of state, at the diplomatic conferences, at the heads of state conferences, which will keep the peace without surrender. And in that connection, we have had just developing in the last 3 days an issue of the greatest magnitude. It involves a couple of little islands. Senator Kennedy refers to them as a couple of barren rocks in the Pacific. They're called Quemoy and Matsu. They're off the coast of Formosa. They are citadels of freedom at the present time, but the Chinese Communists want them, and they threaten them. And, so the question is, What should our answer be? And Senator Kennedy has given his answer. He says: "We will draw a line. We will draw a line of defense which will leave these islands out. We will defend Formosa, but we will draw a line which will leave these islands out." In other words, we will give these islands which presently are free to the Communists. Now, why? Why does he say that? He says that for a number of reasons apparently. First, because he says if we don't give them to them, we might have war. Well, let me say he forgets the lessons of history very quickly. Ten years ago it was, only, when an American Secretary of State, Mr. Acheson, in the same situation, in a very similar situation, indicated that the peninsula of Korea was outside the defense zone of the United States, and all the old arguments were made. After all, Korea was militarily indefensible. It wasn't a place to fight a war. It wasn't worth fighting for. And, so, I suppose at that time and I'm sure Secretary Acheson and his colleagues thought that, because we indicated we weren't going to fight for Korea or defend it, because we left it out of the defense zone of the United States, we wouldn't get into a war over Korea; but hundreds of thousands of American boys learned differently. The Communist took Mr. Acheson at his word, and they came in, and we did become involved in a war. So, I say to you tonight the way to avoid war, when you're dealing with a dictator, is not through surrendering these islands of freedom to him. That is the way that leads to war. It leads to surrender, and I say that we have had enough of retreat and defeat in 1953. We're not going back to that policy in 1960. It is time, my friends, for us to realize that in these last 7½ years we have stopped the march of communism and now is the time not to move backward, but to move forward. Oh, I know all of the old arguments that are made, the arguments that this island is indefensible - and, so, the same argument could be made about Berlin, Berlin completely surrounded by Communist forces, and yet do we say we are going to rule out the 2½ million free people in Berlin? No. My friends, if we are going to keep the peace, if we are going to keep it without surrender, let us remember we must stand for freedom every place in the world. Let us also remember this: That the history of dealing with dictators, whether it was Hitler or Stalin or Khrushchev, has always been that giving them what they want never satisfied them. It only whets their appetite. So, if you give them something now, then they will insist on more later. And then there comes a point where you can't give anymore, and then it means war. And I say we're not going to start down that path again, and I'm going to fight this particular issue out for the balance of this campaign. Now, there's one thing we can be sure of: The Communists will take Mr. Kennedy at his word if he should succeed in November, and we'll be sure that they will take these islands beyond which he has already drawn a line. And, so, tonight again, as I did in the television debate, I call upon him in our next debate, day after tomorrow, to retract this very ill-considered statement, a rash statement. I call upon him to retract it before it's too late and let the American people, Democrats and Republicans alike, serve notice to the Communist aggressors around the world that we're not going to retreat 1 inch more any place in the world because, my friends, may I say this is a road to peace in dealing with a dictator and the other has always been a road to war, an easy road. It seems easy to give them what they want, and it seems to give us peace in our time, but it never works, and it will never work in the future, and that is why we must face up to this and other problems in the way that I have indicated tonight. So, now we have analyzed those things which America must do in this critical period to keep the peace. We must be militarily strong, and that means increase our strength. Our economy must move forward, and that means develop our economic growth even at a faster pace than we're presently moving. We must see that our diplomacy is firm, without being belligerent. We must see that we always strengthen the instruments of peace, always willing to go the extra mile to negotiate, but never being willing to surrender freedom any place in the world. In addition to all this, my friends, we need to mount a grand offensive, an offensive for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. Why do I emphasize this? I emphasize this because this strength, the moral and spiritual strength of America, is more important than everything else I have said tonight. Why do I say this? Because I know. I have seen it around the world. I have seen it in the eyes of thousands of people in Asia and in Africa and in Latin America. I have seen it in the faces of 250,000 people on the streets of Poland, in Warsaw, on a Sunday afternoon. I have seen them there on a day when we were not expected on that particular day, at that particular time, and yet a quarter of a million people greeting us, shouting, as you have been tonight, at the top of their voices, "Niech Zyje America" - "Long live America" - and then, as the car stopped in the middle of the streets, I looked in their faces, and over half of them, grown men and women, crying, with tears running down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily, as we are, and not because we were strong economically, as we are, but because America stands for something more than this simple gross materialism of the Communist nation. We stand for ideals, and this we must let the world know. What are those ideals? Our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our belief that the rights that men have to be free come not from men, but they come from God and cannot be taken away by men; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent, that all people have a right to be free. These things we Americans believe. These are the things we came into the world to preserve, and these principles it is our destiny to extend to all the world. It is this battle that we, Cabot Lodge and I, ask for your permission to fight, to fight it throughout the world, to win victory without war - and we ask you for it tonight. Thank you.
Time and time again I have stressed my deep desire to speed up the advance of America in key areas of our national life. This applies to scientific and medical research, education, attention to the problems of our metropolitan areas, development of our natural resources, including agriculture, and other challenging problem areas that go to the heart of our growth and national strength. One of the major areas in which I want to move swiftly forward is the field of aviation. I am convinced that we have reached the point where aviation policy can no longer be confined to regulation of public convenience and safety and to military considerations. There is a larger role of air transportation to be considered for our general well-being - a larger role than the allocation of air routes, the establishment of safety rules and the procurement of military aircraft. Aviation, like the other elements of our great national transportation systems - our railroads, our highway networks and water routes - affects the general economic health and the conditions of economic growth. Until now we have only incidentally recognized this role as it relates to overall military problems. The time is overdue for more imaginative consideration of national aviation policy.  For example, the military prototypes will soon no longer provide the impetus for development of new aircraft types. With the rise of the importance of missiles there has been a divergence - if only temporary - between the military requirements and the requirements of our civilian transportation system. Even now the aviation industry suffers under the task of bringing the jet age to reality while military interest moves into the missile field. Just ahead and already on the drawing boards, are the fully supersonic aircraft, but presently it is clear to no one how this next step is to be financed. None of us will be content, with the increasing pace of our technology and the requirements of our world leadership, to go about our business at an average rate of several hundred miles an hour. We are leaving the sound barrier behind and the development of our aviation industry must keep pace. As it now stands the industry cannot do this alone. It must have Government help in the development process. Nor can we longer rely on the accidents of military procurement to determine our civilian future in the air. The industry is harrassed by the uncertainties of the situation and barely able to help itself, not only because of the staggering cost implications but because of the limitations of policies, good enough at the time, which must be revised and advanced so we may keep ahead in the 1960's. Unquestionably, we need a new look at American aviation. It needs to be freed from the traditional limitations of Government policy. We should establish at the earliest opportunity a special Presidential Air Policy Commission to make this reevaluation of our situation in aviation and bring in recommendations as to a permanent national aviation policy before the end of 1961. I would give such a Commission a general charter to examine, in concert with the Defense Department, the present policies controlling procurement of military aircraft. It may be time to elevate the present Federal Aviation Agency to Cabinet status with broad powers over all Government aviation policy except those involving procurement of combat aircraft. I repeat - it is urgent, as we enter the sixties, that we are sure we have a healthy American aviation industry in all of its facets. We simply cannot allow our national preeminence in aviation, both commercial and military, to dissipate; nor can we allow the Communist system to outdo us in this area of such great interest to all the world.
Congressman Hosmer, Senator Fong, Senator Kuchel, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and all of the members of the All States Society, I want you to know how very honored both Pat and I are to be invited to be here with you and also by the fact that some of you have come to give us the chance to meet you and to discuss some of the great problems confronting the United States in this election campaign. I really feel very much at home before an All States Society group, because I've been seeing plenty of the States in the past few months, I can assure you. I have traveled all the way, as you know, from Hawaii, to Maine, north, east, west, and south, and certainly we in California can well appreciate the fact that this is a nation of many diverse interests, that we come from many States, and more States perhaps are represented in California than in any other State in the Union. In fact, I was thinking of my own mother and my own father and of Pat's mother and father. She was born in Nevada, and her father came from Connecticut, met her mother in South Dakota, they ended up in California. Her mother, incidentally, was born in Germany. She came over to the United States by herself at 12 years of age, then went to South Dakota where she met Pat's father. That's the background of one typical American girl. I, however, fit the pattern which is well known to Long Beach and to California a little more closely. My parents are both midwesterners. My father was born in Ohio. He left there when he was about 21 years of age and went first to Colorado, where he worked in the wheatfield, and then came on to California, met my mother and here we are. My mother was born in Indiana - I suppose there are some people here from Indiana - and then came on to California, met my father and here we are. As far as Pat and I are concerned, we have lived in so many States that we feel a part of all. I know that I cannot get by without mentioning Iowa. Well, we can cover that base, too, because the very first assignment that I received when I finished my Navy training was to go to Ottumwa, Iowa. Believe me, I certainly wondered why they were sending somebody trained for the Navy to the heart of the cornland of the United States at Ottumwa, but they had built a naval station there and we spent 5 months at Ottumwa before I went overseas in 1943. And, so, to all of you, wherever you may come from, from Ohio, Indiana, or Iowa, from South Dakota, from Texas, from Hawaii, from any of the States, I say we appreciate the chance to be here, and we're proud that we Californians, we think, represent the best of all the States of the United States. Now, you often hear how different the people of the States are, and they are kind of different. Do you know, for example, in North Carolina where I went to school I had to learn to like things like turnip greens and black-eyed peas and hominy grits, and I know, too that as far as our accents are concerned they differ a little. Mine is midwestern and others may have more of the New England type. I'm not thinking of anyone in particular at the moment. But, in any event, while we do have our differences, I find in traveling over the country that the things that are the same about the people of these States of ours are much more important than those things that are different. For example, as far as this campaign is concerned, people often say to me, "Mr. Nixon, what are the people thinking about?" Many people draw the conclusion that people in Atlanta, Ga., for example, are thinking about entirely different things than are people up in New York City; that people in Hawaii, way out in the far, far west, are thinking a lot differently about things than are people in Bangor, Maine, where we were just a few days ago. And there are some differences, but, believe me, they are all thinking about the same issue insofar as the one they think is the most important. Do you know what it is? Let me tell you. The people of this country, north, east, west, and south, are concerned, above everything else, about the future of America. And what about that future? We want a future of progress, but above all, the people of this country are concerned that our children may grow up in a world in which we can be free and we can live at peace - and that is the most important thing that Americans must think about at this time. Now, obviously, I know people could say, "Well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon, do you mean that peace and developing policies that will keep peace and freedom are more important that jobs, more important than good medical care and more important than housing and education and the like?" And the answer is that of course all those things are important too. But we can have all those things and it won't do us any good if we're not around to enjoy them. So, therefore, the major responsibility of the next President of the United States is to keep the peace without surrender, without surrender of principle or territory throughout the world. Now, I want to talk to that point for just a few moments. I'm not going to tell you this is an easy task. I'm not going to tell you if you elect me and Henry Cabot Lodge we're going to guarantee it and you're not going to have to do anything to keep the peace. I'm not going to tell you there are going to be no troubles in the period of the sixties, on which we are embarking. I will tell you today the trouble is going to be very great, not by our choosing, but because we are faced in the world today with ruthless enemies. May I tell you in connection with these problems, however, that I do not approach the future with discouragement. We Americans certainly need not be concerned about our ability to deal with it. We don't need to sell America short because, as far as this future is concerned, we can be sure that there is a way, a way to keep the peace, a way to do it without surrender. And what is that way? Well, first of all, I think we can point to the record. There are many things for which the American people will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower. One of them, incidentally, might I say is the fact that he restored dignity and decency to the conduct of the Government in Washington, D.C., at the White House. And, without referring to his predecessor, may I simply say this: whoever is the President of this country has great responsibilities to keep the peace, to keep this Nation strong; but he also has a responsibility to the young people of this country, and that is never to indulge in anything that would make them ashamed of the man who is the President of the United States, and I mean gutter language or anything of that soft. I only hope whoever is President will follow in Dwight Eisenhower's shoes in that respect - maintain dignity, so that every American can point to the man in the White House and say, "He's a man who maintains the standards that we want young people in this country to follow." It will be difficult, because he has set great standards, but certainly they are ones to which we must all aspire. But, returning to my theme, what about the record of President Eisenhower in this area of peace? Now you've heard a lot about the things that are wrong with it. I'm going to tell you what's right with it. All the criticism in the world cannot obscure the fact that under Dwight Eisenhower's leadership we got this Nation out of a war we were in; we've kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. Now, my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I are part of that record. For the last 7½ years we have sat in the Cabinet and the Security Council. We have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions which avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. We also are men who have had some unique experience. I don't mean that our experience is in terms of years longer than that of anybody else. I do say that it is significant and unique in this respect: We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We both have had the opportunity to deal with him. We have both sat across the conference table from him. And I can only say, knowing the man, knowing what a ruthless, fanatical man he is, that we will never engage in fuzzy, woolly thinking about what the United States has to do to deal with this man who threatens the peace of the world. What do I say we will do? Well, first of all, my friends - and this will be particularly understood in this Long Beach area, which has such a great stake in, and has made such great contributions to, our defense installations - we've got to keep the United States the strongest nation in the world militarily. Now this is going to cost money. Some people would like me to say, "Well, can we keep it right where it is and not increase our expenditures?" And I can't tell you that. I am going to tell you today that it is more likely that we're going to have to increase our expenditures because we're moving into an age when we not only have to develop the weapons to fight wars of the future, missiles and the like, but where we also, until those weapons are fully developed, have to keep strong our weapons of the past. And so I will say to you that, because we know this man who threatens the peace of the world, because we know that he respects only strength, that we will keep America the strongest nation and we will ask the American people to pay whatever is necessary to maintain that strength because we cannot afford not to be the guardians of peace for our children, for ourselves, and for the whole world. Well, there's another kind of a competition we are engaged in - not only in the military field - but in what I choose to call the economic field. Let me explain it by an illustration. When I was in Moscow, Mr. Khrushchev said to me, "Mr. Vice President, we're behind you now as far as our economic progress is concerned. You're ahead of us but,'' he said, ''it won't be for long. We're going to move past you because our system is better than yours. We're moving faster than you are." Then he boasted, "We're going to catch you in 7 years, and we're going to pass you, and," he said, "you know what I'm going to do when we go by you? I'm going to wave and say, 'Here we go; now, come along and follow us and do as we do, or you're going to fall hopelessly behind.'"  That's what he told me. Do you know what I told him? I said, "You're not going to catch us, Mr. Khrushchev, because your system is wrong and ours is right - and never make any mistake about that." But, in making that statement, may I assure you that America cannot rest on its laurels. We've got to keep this economy of ours expanding. We can't be satisfied with the fact that we have had the greatest growth in the last 7-year period that we've ever had in our history - more schools built, more hospitals built, more highways built, a greater increase in the productivity of our factories in that 7-year period than in any administration in history But that record isn't something to rest on. We've got to do even better, because, my friends, when you' re in a race you must always remember that to stay ahead you have to move ahead. And so I say to you today that is why I advocate programs and will stand for programs and will develop programs which will move America ahead. Let me tell you what some of them are. One: We are entering a very exciting period of scientific breakthrough. I know that it's been exciting in the past, but the fifties are nothing compared to what the sixties will be, and America and the Federal Government must assume a great part of the responsibility here, must stimulate the activities of all of our people so that we move ahead scientifically and explore to the full our abilities here. In education, for example, we cannot afford to waste the talents of a potential scientist, of a potential leader of our country, of a potential lawyer or doctor or others. That's why I advocate a program under which our young people who ought to go to college and who cannot afford to pay a loan, if they have the ability and are highly qualified, can get scholarships, and under which those good, hard-working people in this country - and there are literally millions of them who save their money, as my mother did. She got up at 5 o'clock in the morning to make pies so that she could help me through college - can take an income tax deduction or an income tax credit for paying the money to send their children to college. These things I advocate. Now why do I advocate these things? Because America must move forward, and we must not waste the talents of any of our people. We must all move together. Take, for example, aviation - there's a plane just flying over. You know, aviation in this country today is the first in the world. I remember when we were in Moscow, the Russians looked at our jets with amazement. Those of you who have flown on jets know that we have what we call, not reversible props, but reversible jet engines. You know how they stopped the jet in Russia just a year ago? They had to have a parachute that came out of the back in order to pull it to a stop. And they marveled at how far ahead we were in the development of jets. But, my friends, in this area, it isn't enough simply to be where we are. We've got to move ahead. The reason that we have been moving so well in aircraft in the past is that we've had tremendous military strength. Now this military strength at the present time will continue. But it will not continue on the same scale due to the fact that we are moving to missiles. So this means we've got to take a complete new look at what the Government is doing in this field, so that America can move into the supersonic age and continue to be first in the world in air transportation. That's why I've issued a statement today to the press, a statement indicating what America must do, setting up an air policy commission which will make recommendations as to how in this new area we can see to it that America stays ahead. I could go on to the others. Let me get one that is, indeed, very close, I am sure, to some people here. Let's look at medical care for the aged. I feel very strongly on this. As a matter of fact, I introduced one of the first bills providing that all of our older people and others would be able to obtain medical care insurance when I was a Congressman back in the year 1948. One of the reasons I feel strongly about it is that I have seen what it means for our older citizens, when, after having saved their money, they have retired and are living on a very small income, to have tremendous medical expenses hit them. The year that my father died, in 1956, the doctor bills that we had were over $2,000. My mother the same year had operations and doctor bills which cost $1,500. My mother and father were not rich people. I remember they dug into their savings. They were very proud, and they proceeded to pay the bills, just as you would, if you were able to do so. But I know that in this country there are literally hundreds of thousands of people and also hundreds of thousands of children whose parents are in this situation, who are confronted with catastrophic illnesses and wonder what can be done. Now what can be done? Here's my answer: I say that in this field we want first to be sure that we maintain what we have today, and you know what it is? The best medical care in the world. We don't want to do anything that reduces the standard of our medical care. We want to be sure that we don't put our doctors, for example, on the Federal payroll. We want to be sure that they have the independence by which means they have provided the fine care that we've got. And there's something else. I believe that Americans should have a choice. I believe that every person over 65 who wants health insurance ought to be able to get it. I believe that every person over 65 who needs it and ought to have it should be encouraged to get it. But in America, I don't believe that anybody who doesn't want it should be forced to have it against his will. This I think is the right approach to this problem. In this area, as in others, you see the philosophy that I have. Let me just sum it up in a word. We must move ahead economically. We must see that all Americans move together. But may I say to you that in moving ahead economically, we also have to bear in mind the proper role of the Federal Government and the proper role, may I say, is not to take over all these programs, is not to weaken the States and weaken individual responsibility. My friends, the reason America got where it is in the world today is not what government has done but what people have done - and we must never forget that, and we must continue to inspire our people. And so in every program I say he question is, How can we stimulate our people to greater enterprise? Let me go a step further. Sometimes people come to me and they say, "Mr. Nixon, we agree; you do have programs for health, for education, for welfare, in all these fields. You say they are better than your opponent's but how can you say that when he is going to spend more money than you are?" And that's true. He will. He will spend approximately $10 billion a year more for his programs than mine will cost. But I say to you, mine will do a better job and spend less. Then somebody might say, "But doesn't it prove that he cares more because he will spend more money?" And then, of course, the question comes back again: Whose money? Not mine. Not his, your money. And that's why I say it's the responsibility of whoever is President of this country to see that we don't spend $1 of your money that does not need to be spent. And let me tell you why this is important. You remember back in the period before President Eisenhower became President? Prices went up 50 percent in those 7 years. You remember what happened to people living on fixed incomes? You know you had it planned out so you could just get by, pay the grocery bill, perhaps pay the doctor bill, buy your clothes, and then those prices skyrocketed 50 percent. I say to you that it would be the worst thing that I could think of to have an administration in Washington under which taxes would go up, in which prices would skyrocket and literally millions of people, living on fixed incomes, would find they couldn't make ends meet. I pledge to you in this next administration I'm going to remember that I am the guardian of the people's dollars. We are going to spend every dollar that is necessary for the people but we are not going to spend one that isn't because everything that we don't spend you can spend - and, believe me, people need it to make both ends meet. Now, returning to our theme, if we are going to have peace, what else do we need? We need a firm diplomacy. What do I mean by that? I mean by that, very simply, again looking at Mr. Khrushchev, that the way to peace with this man is not through surrendering territory, not through making concessions, not through apologizing or regretting whenever you're right on a particular issue. The only way to peace in dealing with this man, I can assure you, or with his colleagues, and I know from experience, is to stand on principle, never being belligerent, but always standing on principle. Now why? I know the suggestion has been made - I see a sign out here about Quemoy and Matsu, a couple of little islands way out in the Pacific - and the suggestion has been made: "Mr. Nixon, why is it that we don't just turn over these two little islands to the Communists, as your opponent has suggested, so that we can have peace ?" My friends, think back a moment. That was what they said when Hitler was asking first for just Danzig and then for a part of Czechoslovakia, and then far a part of something else next. They said, "Turn it over. Don't fight about it, because we'll have peace." But you know what happens? When a dictator is concerned, and when you feed him by giving him territory or people, it doesn't satisfy his appetite. It only stimulates it and whets it, and he asks for more and more and more, until eventually you've got to stop him, and that means war. And I say to you, that's how we got into Korea. We said, "We won't defend this because it's possibly indefensible or at least outside our defense zone," but when they marched in, we had to. And I say, my friends, that America's learned its lesson with dictators. We know that the road to war and to surrender is paved with exactly the kind of woolly thinking, the kind of fuzzy thinking which says we can turn something over to a dictator and satisfy him. It doesn't work. It never will work. I pledge to you, knowing the way to peace, we will never be belligerent but we are not going to make concessions of this type, because eventually this will lead us to what we do not want - either war or surrender. And now the last point that I make is one that everybody will understand here particularly and one again that cuts across every State line and goes right to the heart of this great country in which we live. This is the most important area of strength if we are going to keep the peace, and I know many of you might say: "Well, Mr. Nixon, what is more important than firm diplomacy and what is more important than a strong economy? What is more important than military strength?" I'll tell you what. In this world in which we live we've got to believe in the right things. We've got to stand for the right things. Let me give you an example. I recall my visit to Poland, a visit which took place last year, right after the visit that Craig Hosmer described. I recall that visit very well. I remember there was not expected to be a crowd that day because the Polish Government hadn't put out the fact that we were coming. They didn't want to have an unfavorable comparison with the crowd Khrushchev had had just a couple of weeks before, and yet that day, the most exciting day of our lives as far as crowds are concerned, a quarter of a million people in this Communist country were on the streets of Warsaw, shouting at the top of their voices, cheering, completely out of control - you know what they were saying? "Niech zyje America - Long live America." When the car stopped in the middle of the city, I looked into their faces, and I saw them, many of them laughing for joy, but over half of them, older men and women, adults, were crying, with tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily. Not because we were strong economically but because we have the moral and spiritual strength, and stand for it, that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. What kind of strength is it? It includes our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of every man, woman and child on this earth, and his right to be free, the right of his nation to be independent; the fact that men's rights for freedom belong not only to the people of the United States but to all men; the fact that these rights come not from men but from God and cannot be taken away by men. These things America came into the world to preserve. These things America stands for today. It is these ideals that we must extend throughout the world, and it is through these ideals, coupled with our military and economic strength, that we will not just hold the line, but win the battle, win it without war, and win it for the forces of freedom throughout the world. But we need your help to do it, because the kind of strength I refer to cannot come just from a leader talking about it. It comes from the hearts of our people. It comes from the homes, from the churches. It comes from the schools of America. And so, all of you, see that our young people grow up with a deep patriotism, a feeling of understanding and loyalty for this country. Let them know how fortunate they are to live in America. Let them have faith in God, faith in their country, but also a deep conviction that this Nation of ours came into the world, as I've said, not just to be rich, not just to be selfish for our own ends, but to stand as a symbol of hope and liberty for people everywhere. This is what we must do, and if we do we shall realize America's destiny. Thank you.
I am sure that all of you will be interested in hearing an indication from me as to how I have found the campaign in California to date. I want to say that in San Diego yesterday, also in Burbank late yesterday evening, where we had a tremendous reception at the airport, and then today in Long Beach, tonight here, we have had four of the greatest meetings of the whole campaign, and I make this prediction: I see a tide running in the State of California. I have never seen greater enthusiasm in a campaign, and we're going to carry this State in November for our ticket. And I'll tell you why we're going to carry it; not only because people have come not only from Orange County, but all over southern California - hundreds of miles some of you have driven to this very meeting - we're going to carry it because of your enthusiasm, but also we're going to carry it because we're going to have the support, in addition to Republicans, in the State of California, of hundreds of thousands of Democrats and independent voters, as we had in 1952 and in 1956. In fact, all over America this is something I have noticed. I have noticed that not only are the Republicans fired up, but that in greater increasing numbers over and over again Democrats and independents are joining with us. And why is this the case? I will tell you why. It is because Americans generally realize that this is one of the most important decisions as far as an election campaign is concerned that they will ever make, a decision that involves not only the future of the United States, but a decision that involves the future of the whole world. As a matter of fact some of you who may recall our last television debate will recall that Senator Kennedy and I had a little disagreement on several things, but particularly on one matter toward the end of the debate. The question was asked: "In this election this year, what should be the primary test - the party or the man?" And, in essence, he replied, the party, and I replied, as I say here tonight, that in this year, 1960, with the stakes as high as they are in America and throughout the world, it is not enough to vote as your fathers did or as your grandfathers did. It is not enough simply to vote on the basis of a party label. It is not enough to vote simply as somebody else tells you how to vote. This is the year when, instead of voting the party, we must vote and put America first, and that is what I ask all of you to do as you vote in this election this November the 8th. I call upon all of those who are here, Republicans, Democrats, and independents. Consider the qualifications of the candidates; consider the problems facing the country, and make the decision on the basis of which of the candidates, regardless of party, can best provide the leadership that America needs, because, my friends, America can settle for nothing but the best that either party may be able to produce. And now, having answered that question, let us turn to the next one which I find is on the minds of people throughout this country. You know, you often hear about how different we Americans are, North, East, West, and South, but I've campaigned now in 35 States, and I find that the people are thinking about the same issues and that particularly they are concerned about one great issue above all the rest, and it is this: They recognize that the most important decision we will be making this November is: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency can best lead America and the free world and keep the peace without surrender of principle or territory? This is the great issue that Americans are thinking about in this year of 1960. Why that issue, some might ask, rather than others? Why would people be more concerned, for example, with keeping the peace and keeping freedom than they would be about having a good job or better schools or better housing? And may I say, my friends, all of us want progress in those fields that I have mentioned, and we shall have it; but, my friends, we can have the best housing and the best schools, the best highways that we can image, and the best jobs, and I know you realize it won't make any difference unless we're around to enjoy them. So, tonight, then, I address myself to that question, the question of how America can keep the peace, how we can do it without surrender, and why I believe that our ticket offers the kind of leadership that can accomplish this particular purpose. Now, the first point that I would like to make is this: How must you judge us? You must look first at our record? my colleague's and mine. We are part of the record of this administration. For 7½ years we have sat in the high councils with President Eisenhower. We have participated in the discussions on Quemoy and Matsu, the other great decisions that have been made that have avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. And, so, therefore, you must judge us by this record. Now, my friends, we've heard a lot about this record that hasn't been too complimentary lately in this political campaign. We've heard that American prestige has been slipping, that it's reached an all-time low. We have heard that our strength has been slipping. We have heard that this has been an administration of retreat and of defeat. We've heard a lot of things which we're going to hear more about, I am sure. But let's never forget this: All the criticism in the world of the Eisenhower administration cannot obscure from the American people the truth, and the truth they know. They know that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got the Nation out of one war; we've kept it out of others, and we do have peace without surrender today - and that's the kind of leadership we want to continue. And, while I'm talking about it, I just read a news report before coming to this platform to the effect that Senator Kennedy said in a speech earlier today that the trigger-happy Republicans, as he calls us, by reason of the stand we have taken on Quemoy and Matsu, have indicated again that they are the ones who are going to endanger the country and possibly lead us to war. Well, now, let's look at history just a moment, since he has brought it up. In the last 50 years, I suggest that he name one Republican President who led this country into war, and I can name three Democratic Presidents who have done so. The question, of course, is not which is the war party and which is the peace party. All of us, Democrats and Republicans, want peace. The question is: Which leaders, Democrat or Republican, in a particular period of history can best do the job, which can best keep the peace? So, I say on the record, we think we have a great deal to offer to the American people. We proved that we can keep the peace. And I can say also that on the record we found a war when we came in, and we got rid of that one, as I pointed out. Now, the second point that I would make is this: In addition to our record, how else must you judge us? You must judge us by our backgrounds, by everything that we believe, by everything that we've done, by everything that we know, and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I in addition to sitting in the high councils of this administration have had an opportunity to know the men who threaten the peace of the world. We both know Mr. Khrushchev and the American people know how we will react to Mr. Khrushchev, because we have shown that we will not be fuzzy minded or woolly headed in dealing with him, and that we will stand up for the United States of America in dealing with him. And it's because we do know Mr. Khrushchev that we believe that we offer the kind of leadership that can keep the peace and keep it without surrender. What are the things that I say to you tonight that, on this knowledge and based on this knowledge, we believe Americans must do and shall do to keep the peace that we all want and to retain the freedom that we all cherish? Well, first, let's look at this man. I have seen him. I have often described him. I describe him for you now. Tough, ruthless, knowing no rules of international diplomacy whatever, respecting none, respecting no morality, a man who believes in only one thing. He respects strength, and he respects firmness. And, so, if you're going to deal with a man like this, if you're going to deal with his colleagues, Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lai, who are just like him, because the Communists all think in the same rigid patterns, there are certain things that I know inevitably we have to do, and the first is this: If we are going to keep the peace, my friends, America must be the strongest nation in the world militarily. Now, what is the situation today? You have heard a lot about the military weakness of this country, and I want to set the record straight tonight for all of our listeners on television and radio and all of you in this great audience. Make no mistake about it, because Khrushchev knows it, America today is the strongest nation in the world - and we're going to stay that way under the leadership that we're going to give in the next administration. The fact that we are the strongest, of course, does not mean that we can rest on our laurels, because the threat is great, and, as I have said over and over again, America must constantly increase her strength, taking advantage of new inventions for breakthroughs, seeing to it that we're never in a position where we are weaker than the Communists and those who threaten the peace. Now, why do I emphasize strength? Again let me remind you, not because we want war, but because we want peace, because, you know, and we must realize, that the only way America can be the guardians of peace is to be stronger than those who threaten the peace and who are against it. So, strength, I pledge, we will see that America will have. What else do we need? We must recognize, my friends, that this is not only a military struggle in the world, but that it is one that is economic in character. I remember Mr. Khrushchev telling me in Moscow. He said, "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now economically, but," he said, "we're traveling faster than you are. We're going to catch you. We're going to pass you." He says, "As a matter of fact, we re going to pass you in 7 years and," he said, "when we go by you, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to wave and I'm going to say, 'Come on now; follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind.'" My friends, I want to tell you what our answer is to him. He isn't going to catch us economically - not in 7 years, not in 70 years - if we remain true to the great principles that have built America and don't stray from them in the years ahead. We are ahead of the Soviet Union today. We produce over twice as much as they do, but again we cannot be complacent. We must develop our resources to the full. That is why I have advocated programs in the field of education, in the field of urban development, in the field of distressed areas, in the field of health, all of these areas, which will see to it that America continues to move forward, and that we even increase the growth that we already have, because, my friends, America can never stand still. We must all move ahead together, and no one must be left behind. And I pledge to you that under the leadership we will provide, America will move ahead, move ahead and stay ahead in this great race for survival. We will see that America's schools continue to be the best, and they will be better than they have ever been before. We will see that America's young people who have the ability have the opportunity to make their contributions to America's greatness. We will see to it that all of our citizens have the opportunity in health and other fields for a rich and better life in this country. And now some of you might well ask the question: "But, Mr. Nixon, isn't everybody for that?" And the answer is: I would assume so. Certainly we all want a good life for our people, and I say that my programs will produce it, and my opponent says his programs will. Why do I tell you tonight, as I do, that ours will produce more progress than his? First, because of the record. I've been amused by the fact that he has said on several occasions that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. Well, let me say this: Anybody who says America has been standing still the last 7½ years hasn't been traveling in America. He's been traveling in some foreign country, and it isn't this one, I can assure you, because, by any index you want to take - we have built more schools; we have built more dams; we have increased the power potential of this country; we have built more hospitals and highways; we have had a greater increase in the productivity, in the wages, the real wages, of our citizens than we have ever had in any administration, and far more than in the previous administration. So, first, America has not been standing still. She has been moving. But, she must move faster, and we will move faster. And again I ask the question: How will we move faster than our opponents will move? And I'll tell you why. Because our systems and our programs are based on the philosophy that will work, and theirs are not. Let me point out the difference very briefly. They say whenever there's a problem, if they want progress in this country, turn to the Federal Government. Set up a huge, big Government program, collect the money from the people, send it all over to Washington, take the responsibility from the people, from the States, from the local government. Washington will do the job. But our answer is exactly the opposite. We say that the way to progress in America is not by starting with the Federal Government and working down to the people, but by starting with the people and working up to the Federal Government. We say, because our programs will tap and stimulate the great energies of the American people, that they will produce progress where our opponents' will not. Look at this great establishment in which we are meeting. They call it Knotts Berry Farm. I remember it many, many years ago, 30 years ago, when it was just a roadside stand, a man and his wife selling very, very good boysenberry pies, and I've seen how it grew. How did it grow into this tremendously successful establishment which has brought thousands of jobs and which has brought good food and entertainment to millions of people? How did it come? The Government didn't build this. An individual built it - and that's what's going to build America in the future. My friends, it's because we have faith in individual enterprise and our opponents lack it; it's because we have faith in Americans - and unfortunately, our opponents seem to lack it too often - it's because we are going to stimulate individual enterprise that America will move under our direction as she will never move under theirs. But then again a question may come into your minds: "Mr. Nixon," I've often been asked ''how can you say that you are more for progress than your Opponent is when he says he will spend more than you will? Doesn't this prove he's more for progress?" And you know what my answer is? Consider for a moment - whose money is he spending? It isn't mine, and it isn't his, but it's yours - and that's the answer to it. And, yes, I agree, and you must all realize, and everybody listening on television and radio must recognize, that if you vote for our opponents you're voting to raise your taxes; you are voting to raise your prices, or both, because they have a program that would add billions of dollars and would spend billions more than would ours. But the sad tragedy of it is, with all of their spending, they would not produce the progress that ours would; and I say to you, as far as these programs are concerned, when Americans can get more progress by spending less of their money they're going to take that program rather than voting for another program that will spend more and produce less - and that really is the issue they are going to decide in this particular instance. And let me say in that connection, too, that, as we consider this whole problem of how much the Government spends, of what our prices are, I think that one of the major responsibilities of whoever is President of this country is to be the guardian not only of the Federal budget, but the family budget. Millions of families have difficulty in making both ends meet, and I say that it is our responsibility to spend every dollar we need to spend for America's defense, but not $1 that we don't need to spend either for our defense or for other purposes - and that's why again America will support us and not our opponents, because they say the answer is always: Money will buy everything. And it won't - and that is certainly the answer. Now I turn to another point. If we are going to have peace, we not only must keep America the strongest nation in the world militarily; we must not only stay ahead of our potential opponents economically, but, in addition, my friends, we need the diplomacy that is just as strong to go along with it. What do I mean by diplomacy? This is what happens in the great councils of state, at meetings at the summit. This is what happens where the Secretary of State sits down with his opposite number, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union. This is what happens where the President of the United States sits down opposite Mr. Khrushchev or some other leader. What kind of diplomacy do we need in this period? I want to talk to that point for just a moment, if I might. In the first place, we must recognize, as far as our diplomacy is concerned, that the only kind that has ever worked in dealing with the Communists or with any dictator, is to be firm on principle, not belligerent, always willing to go the extra mile, to negotiate for peace, but never making a concession to a Communist or any other dictator without getting one in return. This we must have or we shall not have peace. And now I want to talk to you about a very serious problem, one that has arisen in recent days, one that was discussed again in our second debate, one which Senator Kennedy referred to again today - two little islands out in the Pacific, Quemoy and Matsu. They are islands of free men today, and Senator Kennedy has suggested that these two islands should be turned over to the Communists, that we, in effect should force our allies---- (cries of ''No'') This is your answer, and let me tell you why your answer is correct. Because, as we consider these two little islands, remember, what he suggests is, first, they may be indefensible, but, my friends, you can make that same kind of an argument for Berlin. Does this mean that we are going to desert the 2½ million people in Berlin? No; it doesn't. You can make this same argument, as it was made, for Korea, and yet did this mean we did not have to go into Korea? No. We had to go in. No, my friends, the argument of indefensibility does not stand up. What else stands up? Senator Kennedy has suggested: "But Mr. Nixon and the Republicans, as he calls us, the Eisenhower administration, are going to go to war over these islands. They are leading us into war." And what is his implication? That if he goes in he will turn over these islands and we won't have war. My friends, the lesson of history he forgets. Whenever you deal with a dictator and make a concession to him, it does not lead to peace. It inevitably leads to more demands and inevitably to war. You remember Hitler? We tried to buy him off. First, they gave him Danzig. Then they gave him other parts of Europe. Each time the answer was: "This is all he wants, and we will have peace." But every time they gave him something he asked for more and more and more, until at last it was war, and the worst war in history. And then came Korea, and Dean Acheson, the Secretary of State, you recall, indicated Korea was outside the defense zone of the United States, and we thought this might, of course, not result in war over Korea, but the Communists took him at his word. They marched in and 30,000 American boys paid the price of folly diplomatically. And, so, I say to you, my friends, as far as the previous administration is concerned, 600 million people were lost to communism. We did become involved in a war. It was an administration of retreat, and it was an administration of defeat. But we left that policy of retreat and defeat behind in 1953, and we're not going to go back to it in 1960, as Senator Kennedy has asked, because as we stand firmly for freedom we serve notice to all the dictators in the world that they will not be able to blackmail us, that they will not be able to force us into war by eventually asking for more than we will be able to surrender. And, so, I say: If America wants peace - and we all desperately want it - if we also want freedom, the only answer is not a policy of weakness, not a policy of surrender, of territory or people, but a policy of strength - and that's where I stand and that's where I will fight throughout this campaign and throughout my life, because I know the men with whom we are dealing in this instance. And now I turn to one final point: America can keep the peace. We can keep it without surrender if we're strong militarily and strong economically and are firm diplomatically, but we must do more than that. We must win the struggle for peace and for freedom. We must not have freedom retreat. We must extend the cause of freedom. And how do we do this? And here what will count is what America believes m. Here is where our faith is what will prevail, and I speak of the faith that all Americans must have in the basic ideals that have made America great. You know what they are? Our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men to be free; our belief that these rights come not from men, but from God and cannot be taken away by men, and our belief in our faith that America came into the world not simply to have these rights for ourselves alone, but to stand for them and to extend them to all people. This is what the world wants to hear. This is what America stands for. This is the kind of leadership that America needs, and may the people of the United States, in your hearts, through our churches and through our homes and through our schools - may you instill in the American people a burning faith in freedom, a belief in it, so that we can lead the forces of freedom to victory without war. It can be done because, my friends, we're on the right side. That is my case. If you believe that this is the kind of leadership that America needs, if you believe that we stand for the principles that America has always stood for, then we ask for your support in this election campaign - and we thank you for coming tonight.
 This much is crystal clear about Senator Kennedy's campaign to date: His pat answer to America's domestic problems is a massive increase in Federal spending programs. Not only is his approach faulty, it will not do the job because his programs would discourage, not encourage, the primary source of progress in this country - the creative individual enterprise of 180 million Americans. The case before the American people is: Can they afford a President who thinks he can buy solutions to the problems facing America? Can they afford a President whose automatic reaction to every problem is to spend more of your money? My opponent's test of whether a program is good is how much tax money can be spent on it, rather than how much need be spent to do the job effectively. In both of our television debates, Senator Kennedy was asked to tell the American people what his program will cost. He dodged this question on both occasions. He has left the people in the dark. I have had his platform costed out and have stated that it would cost at least $10 billion a year more than the programs that I have advocated. I have also stated my conviction that this extravagant approach would produce less progress than the programs I favor. His answer has been that my figures are incorrect. He charges that I have overestimated the cost of his programs. He owes it to the American people on our television debate Thursday not to dodge any longer but to give the people the answers to these questions. First. If my figures are wrong, what are his figures as to how much his programs will cost? Second. How does he propose to pay for these programs? Third. Is he going to raise taxes? Fourth. If he is not going to impose burdensome new taxes, how can he finance his program without huge new deficit financing that will once again start prices going up and bust the budgets of millions of American families? Fifth. Or is he going to finance these programs on high hopes - banking on revenues from an artificially forced rate of expansion of the economy? Both my opponent and I are asking the American people, in effect, to support our programs and our policies. Before the people do so, they have a right to see the price tag. I have told the people what my programs would cost. He now must tell the American people what his programs would cost. He should quit dodging this question so important to American families who are trying to make both ends meet and who cannot afford and do not want a rise in prices or in taxes unless it is proved necessary to protect our national security.
Now, in speaking of the issues, obviously when we have a crowd like this you have been standing; you are all jammed together - I cannot talk at great length and I have to pick those things that are of greatest interest to the greatest number. I want to give first of all; the index that I would like all of you to apply in judging what I say today and in judging how you should vote for President of the United States. I do not agree with those who say that what counts in a presidential election is to vote your party. I believe in my party. I am very proud of it, but I think that when we elect a President, particularly in this year 1960, what we need to do is not to vote as our fathers did or as our mothers did or just for that reason, not to vote simply on the basis of the party label, because mine happens to be the same as yours, as it is. What we have to do is think of America and vote for whomever is the best man for America and the free world in this critical year 1960 and that is the basis on which I present the ease to you today. And so that, then, brings us to America, what we want, what we want for our country. Well, of course, we want different things. I suppose that with this kind of a crowd, particularly with some young people in front of me, my thoughts would naturally turn to their future, and all of us are thinking of the future of America. I know my father always used to say when the five of us were growing up, five boys in the family - he never used to say, as some do, "I want to talk about the good old days." He said, "In this country we never want to go back, and we're never satisfied with the present. We always want to go forward into a better future." And that's what we want to do. We want a better future for these young people even than we have had for ourselves. And let me say in that connection we're very fortunate to live in this country. We have had magnificent leadership, in my opinion, in President Eisenhower in the last 7 years. We have made great progress. We have made great progress, and I want to say particularly in this instance that, having made that progress, that I want to answer a charge that has been made by our political opponents, and answer it squarely right at the outset. The charge has been made that America has been standing still during the Eisenhower years. Well, I've just been traveling around Los Angeles County and Orange County, and if this country is standing still, the people that are saying that aren't traveling around America. They just haven't been seeing what's been happening, because America has been growing. They've been traveling in some other country. And also on the President's birthday - as you know, today he's 70 years of age, and I would say he is the man, as you know, who is the oldest man ever to be in the White House in terms of years, but the youngest in spirit still today. That's the wire I sent to him, and so I would say that on this day there's one thing that I particularly resent that I want to reply to. I noticed that my opponent, in speaking in upper New York a few days ago made this statement in regard to our foreign policy. He was pointing out that he thought our prestige was low, as he did last night and then he went on to say - he said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing." He says, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Premier Castro is doing." He said, "I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me tell you something, my friends. If he would just stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, he hasn't been doing some of the things that Mr. Kennedy has suggested. He hasn't been apologizing or expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for defending the United States against surprise attack. And also he hasn't been doing what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. He hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo and try to take over that new country. He's been working through the United Nations, trying to save independence and freedom for that country and all others. He hasn't put up a phony disarmament scheme, but he's been working for atoms for peace and for real disarmament. He has stood for great moral leadership in the world, and this has been good for America, and it has meant that our prestige, rather than being at an alltime low, as people have suggested, is high today, and in the United Nations it's particularly high, and if we have any doubts about it, look at that vote on the Congo a few days ago. The Soviet Union on one side; we were on the other side, and the vote was 70 to 0. That's pretty good in any game. It's very good in international diplomacy, and President Eisenhower certainly is the man who deserves a great deal of credit on his 70th birthday for a 70-to-0 vote. But all of this is the past. All of this is the present. We want to look to the future. As I say, I'm proud of the record we've made, a record in international affairs that has ended one war and kept us out of others, a record domestically that has moved America forward, built more schools, more houses, more highways, better employment in jobs and wages than in any 8-year period in history, more progress in civil rights than in 80 years. I'm proud of this record. But, good as it is, it isn't good enough. We must move forward, move forward from here, because we're in a race, as I indicated last night, a deadly race for the survival of our country, and in this race we have an antagonist, a number of antagonists, but symbolized by Mr. Khrushchev. I remember when I saw him in Moscow what he said to me. He said, "Mr. Nixon," he said, "you're ahead of us now, I have to agree, economically; but," he said, "you're not going to stay ahead." He said, "We're moving faster than you are and we're going to catch you, and when we catch you about 7 years from now," he said, "I'm going to wave and say, 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind.'" In other words, what Mr. Khrushchev is trying to tell us is that communism is the way of the future. He tells us our grandchildren will live under communism. He tells us this because he believes it, because he believes his system is superior and the world will choose it in the competition - what he calls peaceful competition - between the two systems. And so I say to you: We must not make - we must not allow - any opportunity for his ambitions to come true, and the way that we must meet him is not simply to hold the line against communism. It isn't simply to say that we in the United States are satisfied with things as we have them, because they are good. We've got to tell all the world that our answer to him is that we will extend freedom, that it is not communism, but freedom, that is the way to the future, and that as far as our grandchildren are concerned and his too, that they will live in freedom because this is the right thing and the world will choose it, and it's our responsibility to lead the world in the right way, and that's the message that I bring you in this campaign. I bring it to you because only if we stand affirmatively for what is right can we hold those things that we cherish so much today. Now, let me just give you a few illustrations. How can we make progress? We have to make progress in the economic area, first. We have to make progress which will mean more jobs, more production, better schools better housing, all the things that spell a better life for the American people, and also an example for the world to see, so that they choose our way rather than the Communist way into the future. Now, I say to you that my programs will produce progress. I say to you they're better than those of my opponent. This leaves you in somewhat of a predicament, because he says the same thing. Now, what do you decide and how do you decide? Well, you know, you don't have to take our word for it. You look at the record - 7 years of the Truman administration; 7 years of the Eisenhower administration. His policies, the ones he wants to go back to, were in effect for 7 years, and they didn't work. More schools built, more houses built, better jobs, higher wages, less inflation in the Eisenhower years than in the Truman years. So, let's go forward in this way and not go back to what we left 7 years ago. That's the first point I would make. Now, I have to make an admission, and here again I want to speak to these young people here. Some of them say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, you say your programs will produce more progress. They're better, but we note that your opponent says his are going to cost more and, therefore, that must mean that they will do more and that he's more for these things that spell progress."  But, my friends, did you ever stop to think of this? Who's going to pay for those promises that he makes and that I make? Not me. Not him; but you. It's your money.  And, so, I say to you that American people today want progress, but they also are people who want to be sure that we have progress in which we develop to the full the individual enterprise of this country, in which the Government activity is all that is necessary, but no more than is necessary; because, remember this: Every time we spend a dollar in Washington it comes right from you. Every time we spend a dollar which we don't get back in taxes, your prices go up. And I know that his programs, because they would spend billions more than mine, would do exactly that. And that's why I say our programs, which will produce progress, produce it because we tap the unlimited energies, we have faith in individual enterprise - I say they are the ones that will move America forward, and I say they are the ones we want, and we do not want to turn to programs which start with the Federal Government and say that it is the answer to all progress. Now, if I could turn to one other point, the most important one, and I will be finished. What is more important than jobs and progress and these things that I have been mentioning? Well, of course, you know what it is. It's just being around to enjoy it, because we can have the best jobs and medical care and housing and all that sort of thing that we can imagine, and if we aren't around, we're not going to know it, so, the most important qualification of the next President of the United States must be this: Is he the man best qualified, by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace, keep it without surrender of principle or territory? This is the great test, and I ask you to apply it. Now, looking at this issue, let me tell you that if we're going to keep the peace, we must understand the men who threaten it. Now, my colleague and I, Cabot Lodge, know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. We know what kind of a man he is. I believe we know how to deal with him and how not to deal with him. I can say, too, that looking at this man - and I use him as an example, because Mao Tse-tung, the Chinese, the other Communists are like him - their philosophies are all the same - there's one thing we must remember above everything else.  If we want peace, if we want peace without surrender, we must remember that in dealing with the Communists, they understand only strength and firmness. They have contempt for weakness militarily, and they have contempt for weakness diplomatically. And if you want peace, there must be strength.  Let me spell it out. First, then, this means America has to be the strongest nation in the world militarily. We are today, and we're going to stay that way, and we've got to pay whatever is necessary, and I pledge that we will do this, because we must never be in a position where the enemies of peace can say: "We're looking down the throat of an American President. We can blackmail him at the conference table." So, one, America must be strong militarily. Two, we must be firm diplomatically. You heard an argument last night on the television about the situation out in the Formosa Straits, about Quemoy and Matsu, a very complicated situation, it would seem, but not as complicated as it really appeared when you analyze the facts. Five years ago a resolution passed by the Senate of the United States, a resolution giving to the President of the United States the discretion and the power to use the Armed Forces of this country to defend Formosa and to answer and retaliate against any attack which was directed to Formosa, an ally of the United States. During the course of the debate, an amendment was introduced by well-intentioned people, one supported by my opponent. Only 12 Senators voted for it, a minority of even the Democrats, as well as a minority of the Republicans, an amendment which said: Defend Formosa, Mr. President, but we say draw a line. Don't include two free islands, Quemoy and Matsu. You can't use the forces of the United States to defend those islands. You must draw a line and say only use the forces of the United States when Formosa itself is under attack. Walter George, the great Democrat, who was the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, in the last word in that debate said: "We cannot tie the hands of the President of the United States. We cannot say to him that the forces of the United States have to wait until the Communists have set foot on Formosa." As he well pointed out, we must never be in a position where we invite an attack by the Communists by surrendering to them at the point of a gun territory which is free. Now, let me give you a lesson of history. The lesson of history is this: Where a dictator is concerned - and this is true of a Fascist, a Nazi, a Communist, a bully, any kind of a dictator - you must never surrender to him at the point of threat, because when you do, it doesn't satisfy him. It just encourages him to ask for more. Remember Hitler? First, it was the Rhineland; then it was Austria; then it was Danzig; then it was Sudetenland, and all over the world people said, "Don't fight for this; don't fight for that; this is all Hitler wants." And he said that was all he wanted, and yet, eventually, every time we gave in he wanted more and more and more, until finally he wanted something that we had to fight for, and war resulted. So, the well-intentioned people who said, "Look, we won't defend this; we won't defend that; we'll bring on war" - they were adopting the policy that led to war, rather than the one that avoided it. It's the same today. Whenever a President of the United States, whenever the people of this country say to a Communist dictator, "Look, we rule out this part of the free world; we will not defend this part of the free world; we're going to telegraph in advance and tell you, 'Look, don't worry about this; if you will just leave this alone,'" what's going to happen? It's going to encourage them to say, "Well, if we got away with blackmail and threats in this case, we might try it again," and they will back up again and again and again. I say to you, my friends, we tried that in Korea. You remember Secretary Acheson? He said we won't defend Korea, and a lot of people, I know, thought in January of 1950 this means we're not going to get in war in Korea, but the Communists took him at his word. They marched in in June of that year, and 35,000 American boys died and paid the price of diplomatic stupidity and blundering, and we're not going to do it again. We're not going to make that mistake again. What I am saying here today is that when we stand firmly against the blackmail, against the threats of a dictator, we are standing for peace. We are not taking the course of war. And that's exactly the point we have got to have in mind. And when the well intentioned, but the naive, people say, "Turn this over; turn that over," they say, "because we want peace," remember, they think they're for peace, but actually they're advocating the very policy that will bring war, because it encourages the dictator to ask what he wants. I was just in the police station in here, incidentally talking to various people. I saw on the wall a little line, not new. You've heard it. "Crime doesn't pay." That's true of criminals domestically. In other words, if crime paid, the criminals would be encouraged to do more and more and more, but because we've got police stations that say crime doesn't pay, the criminal is discouraged. Now, in international affairs, it's exactly the same thing. The Chinese Communists at the present time are international criminals. They're threatening us in Formosa. They're threatening free people in Korea. You know what they did to Tibet. And, so, we have got to tell all of those who are international criminals, and that is who use force to extend their aggression, that crime doesn't pay; because, if it does pay, they're going to use it. It's just as simple as that. So, that's really what we're talking about here. We're announcing to the world that America, a strong, free country, does not want war. We're strong because we want peace, not because we want war. We're firm, not because we want to fight over a couple of islands, but because we know that if we indicate that crime will pay, we're going to get into blackmail and into threats and if we let them have it, this is going to lead to war. So, I say to you today: We have learned our lesson. We learned it with Hitler. We learned it in Korea, and, therefore, the kind of policy that Cabot Lodge and I stand for is the kind of policy that the President has followed, it has worked for 5 years, and we say this is not the time to change the course that the President has followed, in which the President has, in effect, said: "We will defend this area and we are not going to write off any part of this area in advance, and we will defend Formosa and will answer any attack directed toward it." So, there, in detail, is the answer to the question which we've discussed. The last point that I would like to make, a very simple one: We have been talking about economic strength and military strength, but I do not want this opportunity to go, particularly with so many young people here, without reminding all of you that most important in this struggle is going to be what America believes in. It's our faith that will count. I have seen that around the world, yes, and our wealth is respected, but what America stands for the most in the world is the fact that we believe in the right things - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men, regardless of their background; our belief in the rights of men to be free and of nations to be independent; our belief that these rights belong to all nations, not just to us alone. These are the things, the ideals, that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. These are the ideals that America came into the world to preserve, and these are the ideals that it is our destiny to extend, and these ideals must come not just from a President, because he can only be as great or as strong as the people are great or strong. They must come from the very soul, from the very heart of our people. So, I say to all of you: Remember, the churches, the schools, the homes of America are the places where this idealism, this faith in America, in her ideals, this must be instilled in our young people. This is a great country. All you have to know to realize it is to travel around it, as I have. All you have to know to realize it is to go somewhere else, as I have. All you have to do really to appreciate it is to go to the Soviet Union or to Poland, as I have, and see what it is not to have freedom. This freedom is something worth everything that we have done to preserve it, and we can keep it. We can keep it without war, but it's going to take strength; it's going to take courage; it's going to take leadership, and it's going to take a stouthearted people with a flaming patriotism, which will outwork the enemies of freedom throughout the world. And to that task we certainly call upon you, the people of this area, to give your best efforts. Thank you.
Now I would like to talk very concisely and briefly, if I might, about the major problem of our time. I would like to talk about it in personal terms, personal terms because, to put it in political terms, would be not appropriate, I think, and not particularly helpful. The major problem of our times, as we all know, is keeping the peace without surrender. This we all know is overriding. We can have everything else, the finest breakfast clubs and everything else in the world, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're all atomized. So, peace and freedom - major problem. Now, how do we do it? Let me get one thing very clear. Jake Javits was extremely kind in what he said and Tom Kuchel was kind in what he said. There is no disagreement among the Republicans and Democrats of this country about the desire for peace and the desire for freedom and opposition to certainly anything which would destroy the freedom of this country. There is no disagreement, also, may I say, between the two candidates for the Presidency on the issue that Jake Javits has suggested. I make this clear, because I believe it. I believe certainly that my opponent and I, while we differ, I think, perhaps as to the means we would use, we share the same concerns, using a word that is rather familiar to our Quaker friends, the same concerns. We want peace. We want certainly peace with justice. We also want equality of opportunity for all of our people. We want, of course, progress in this field of human rights. These things we all believe. I believe that he does, and I would trust that you also would believe that I do. So, let's start with that. The question is: How do we achieve it? And here we do have disagreement. I mentioned, for example, the fact that my background is Quaker on my mother's side. I say on my mother's side. It was one of those usual family problems. My father was a Methodist; my mother was a Quaker. They got married and compromised and my father became a Quaker too. So, that's the way it worked out. In any event, peace without surrender. You know, among those who are my most strongest critics with regard to the policies of the Eisenhower administration and the things I stand for are my Quaker friends. They say to me, "Mr. Nixon," - or Dick - if they know me better, or Richard - They say, "Why is it we cannot stand for a position in which we will be more trusting of Mr. Khrushchev?" For example, they say on disarmament, when he was here in the United States making these fantastic proposals, "Let's disarm. Let's do it on trust, we don't have to - " and then later on we can work out all the agreements. "Why don't we do that?" Then I say to them: "Why do you say this?" They say, "Because we want peace." And they say, "Don't you realize you're standing in the way of peace, because you don't have trust. You're not trusting your fellow man." And it's hard; it's hard to hear that from people you know give their lives to peace, that love it, love it above anything else in the world. And then other times they say to me: "Why is it that you take a position, a position that, with regard to this whole field of diplomacy, we have to be firm Why can't we go, shall we say, in dealing with the Communists - why can't we treat them as we would want them to treat us? Why don't we, in other words, make a concession here and there? Wouldn't it bring peace a little further? Why do we have to be," as they say, "so firm in standing for the positions that we have around the world?" And, so, I want to say here today why strength and firmness are principles of peace - principles of peace. Now, let's look first at strength. The United States today is the strongest nation in the world. It's got to remain the strongest nation in the world. We've got to pay anything that's necessary to do it. We have got to pay anything that's necessary to do it, and I can assure you that if I have anything to say about it, if there is any doubt on any score, whether it's in the case of the deterrent or striking power or anything that we want that is necessary to maintain absolute level of superiority, that will come first first above everything, first above the desire to cut taxes, to cut the debt, anything else. Why do I say that, I, a Quaker, coming from a line of people who feel so strongly the other way, or the other way, at least., they seem to? I'll tell you why. Because I know that we're the guardian of peace. I know that when there are men in the world on the loose who are not for what we are, who are out to conquer the world, by any means, if necessary, by war, if possible, by any means, if necessary, including war, and Mao Tse-tung says that over and over again even now. He says a third world war might bring a Communist world. When you're confronted with people like that, we have to have a strong force which can be a guardian of peace. Why? So long as we are stronger than they are, this deters them from using their power, (1) either to start a war, or (2) what is more likely, using it for blackmail purposes at the conference table, and say, "Look, unless you do this or that or the other thing, we might do something." So, we must never have a position where a President, Democrat or Republican, ever goes to a conference table, where Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else can say, "I'm looking down your throat." That's why American strength is essential. Now, let's turn to disarmament a moment. People say, "Now, why is it we can't get some imaginative disarmament proposals, or suspension of nuclear test proposals? Aren't we being too rigid?" And I can only say I have seen these proposals over the years, and the United States could not have been more tolerant. We have not only gone an extra mile - we have gone an extra 5 miles - on the tests, on disarmament, but on everything else, but every time we come to a blocking point, the blocking point is no inspection, no inspection. And so, again people say, "Now, just a minute." They say, "Why don't we take the initiative?" And you hear the best-intentioned people, and let me say this: The people who take these positions do them not out of bad motives but good motives. That is the sad thing about it. They want peace so badly they would do anything to get it, and they would do the wrong things, the things that would bring war, because they say, "Why do we set an example for the world?" They say, "What's the example ?" I say, we take the initiative, we take the initiative in disarmament and that will put them on a spot so they will. Let me say this: The moment the United States ever reduces its strength without having a complementary reduction in strength by our opponents, it means we increase the risk of war, rather than decrease it, because, remember, strength in our hands is an instrument of peace, but a superiority of strength among the enemies of peace is an instrument of war and so that's why the United States in taking a position of, say, "Yes', we'll disarm with inspection, but we will never disarm without," is standing for peace and not for war. And those who say, "Look, take a softer position or take a more flexible position" - they are the ones who are standing for the war position. So, again I say, strength, firmness, are essential. Let's apply it again to the little argument that Senator Kennedy and I had last night about these islands in the Pacific. Let's consider just a moment what it's really all about. Here, 5 years ago, a decision was made in the U.S. Senate. The decision was to give to the President of the United States the power at his discretion to defend Formosa, and to meet any attack which he considered to be an attack on Formosa. Now, at the time the debate was taking place there was also a debate raging about the offshore islands of Quemoy and Matsu, because the Communists were saying these islands are steppingstones to an attack on Formosa. The Nationalists said, if the Communists attack these islands, it is preliminary to an attack on Formosa. So during the course of the debate, some very well-intentioned Senators, a very small minority, but well-intentioned Senators, put an amendment. They said, "It's all right to defend Formosa, but let us draw a line and say we will not defend these little islands out here, only 50,000 people there, just a couple of pieces of rock. Why include them? They're harder to defend. We'll just defend Formosa." Now, they thought when they put in this amendment that they were serving the cause of peace, but the Senate rejected it. It rejected it by a vote of 70 to 12. A majority of the Democrats, a majority of the Republicans voted to say we won't draw a line. We won't tie the President's hands. We're going to say to the President of the United States that he can determine to defend these islands if he considers this is an attack on Formosa. Now, who was right? Who was wrong? It happens that my opponent was in the small little band that said we'll draw a line. We won't defend them. Well, the best proof of who was right is what has happened in the last 5 years. For 5 years it's been the policy of the United States to say to Mao Tse-tung and the Communists, "Look, as far as the United States is concerned, we're not drawing a line saying that we're surrendering these islands to you. We're saying that if an attack is made you must take your chance that we will react to it." What's been the result? Oh, they've shelled them. Yes. But, on the other hand, they haven't launched an attack. And I say if a policy has worked for 5 years, this isn't any time to change it. This is no time to say to the Communists, "Now, look, we're going to turn these islands over to you," and I'll tell you why it is no time to change it. Because the moment in dealing with a dictator that at the point of a gun you give him something that he's after, it doesn't satisfy him; it only whets his appetite, and he's after something else, and the point is: When are you going to stop him? Of course, again my well-meaning, peace-loving friends, and I couldn't have more affection for them, and yet more concern about their attitudes, they come to me and they say, "But, Mr. Nixon, what if Mr. Mao Tse-tung says all he wants are those two islands?" Hitler said that. All he wanted was the Sudetenland. All he wanted was Austria. All he wanted was Danzig. All he wanted was the Rhineland. And the West said, "Well, it's just this much, peace in our time, on and on and on, and then he eventually wanted something that we couldn't let him have, and, so, we had war. As the President has often said, in these councils, he said - and he speaks with pretty good authority on this, I think - in this very debate, when it was occurring, he said, "If you ever start the policy of surrendering territory that is free at the point of a gun to a dictator, the problem is, When are you going to stop?" And the point is that with a dictator, since it does whet his appetite, he gets this, and if it works there, he tries something else, and then the time comes when America must stand up and war comes. And, so, I say, then, staying with our present position is the way to peace. Changing our present position invites aggression and invites war. So, that's why I've called upon Senator Kennedy, his colleagues, all of whom want peace as much as I do, to stand as with the Senate in 1955, with the position that has worked, to stand with the President today, and to say that we are not going to surrender at the point of a gun to people who say that they want not Quemoy and Matsu, not just Formosa, but the whole world; we're not going to surrender an island of freedom in advance. This is the position that we must take. The principles of peace are these: strength militarily, firmness diplomatically. It would seem the opposite would be the case, of course. That's always true. A peace-loving person is one who would say, "We will disarm." A true peace-loving person is one who would say, "We'll make concessions," but, you see, this is the trouble. The well-intentioned people who think that they're really for peace really aren't in the long run, in fact, because the things that they would do would bring the very disaster that we do not want. Now, if I could shift, and cover one other subject, I'll be through. So much of our discussion last night, not by our fault, but because it was primarily in the public domain, was on materialism, taxes, and all these things. You're all interested in that, of course. It was on military strength and Quemoy and Matsu. Too little of it was on what really is going to be decisive in the world struggle. What is going to be decisive. It isn't going to be America's military strength or its economic strength. These things are important, and we must always be first in both, but remember: The battle for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men will decide this struggle. I often tell the story of what I saw in Poland - coming in on a Sunday afternoon, Warsaw, Communist government, Gomulko's government not putting out the parade route, and yet you know in a Communist country or a dictatorial country the word goes by word of mouth through the underground, and a quarter of a million people were on the streets that day, Pat and I riding in an open car, and as we came down through the streets of Warsaw we saw a sight that exceeded anything that we've ever seen in all of our campaigning and our trips to 55 countries. There they were - people cheering at the top of their voices, shouting Niech Zyje America - Long Live America. There they were, throwing flowers in the Polish fashion, hundreds and hundreds of bouquets of roses and others that these very poor people, most of them, had bought with their own money. When Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before the government had bought the flowers. They didn't throw them. They kept them. Anyway, they were throwing flowers in the car, and the thing that was most moving - the caravan stopped in the middle of the street - and the police weren't ready for it - eight times, by mobs, friendly mobs, and as they milled around us, I looked into their faces. They were singing "May you live a hundred years," that wonderful Polish song that some of you know, and a lot of them were laughing for joy, but over half of them, I would say, grown men and women, were crying, with tears running down their cheeks. Now, why? Not because Pat or I were famous - we weren't - as President Eisenhower would have been, and not because America was a great, strong military country, and a great rich country. Khrushchev had bragged about that when he was there and he didn't get this kind of reception; but because the people of Poland knew that America from the time of its foundation stood for something other than military strength, other than economic might, other than sheer materialism. We stood for ideals. What are they? Oh, they're very simple. They're ideals that join all religions, as I said last night in the television broadcast - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of every man, woman, and child on this earth; our belief that the rights that men have to freedom, all freedoms, come not from men, but from God, and cannot be taken away by men: our belief that every nation has a right to be independent, and that all people have a right to be free. These things sound like clichés, almost, as I speak them, I am sure, but, believe me, we must never feel that they sound that way, because these are things that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. America in 1776 and 1780 and 1785 and 1790, when we were going through the process of the Revolution, and also when we had our Constitution and Declaration of Independence, was one of the weakest nations in the world militarily. It was one of the weakest nations in the world economically, a very, very immature, primitive agricultural economy, but it was the strongest nation or one of the strongest ideologically, because we stood for something. We believed in things, things and ideals that were bigger than America, that belonged to all the world, that came to us from all the ages, and those ideals America came into the world to preserve, not only for ourselves, but, as Thomas Jefferson said, "We act not for ourselves, but for all mankind." And, so, this is what we must remember today: It isn't enough just to keep America strong militarily. It isn't enough simply to be the richest and strongest country economically. It isn't enough just to be sure that we defend our own freedom. America must stand for the right of people everywhere to be free. We must fight to extend it, without war, and you say, "Without war, Mr. Vice President?" And people say, "You mean that the Communists will have any respect other than military strength and sheer materialism?" And my answer is: The tyrants through history, the militarists and the materialists have always underestimated the power of moral and spiritual strength - and they will again. So, this we must do, then, and the next President, whether it's me or my opponent - he must lead America not simply as a strong military and economic nation, but as a nation which stands for and believes in great ideals. Now, this comes to my last point: What do you have to do with all this? You know, an easy thing to say is "this is a time for greatness, and I am the great man that can provide the leadership that America needs." I can talk about these ideals. That will help some. As Jake Javits said, "A President has a responsibility to set a moral tone, whether it's in civil rights or conduct or anything else, but greatness comes, as far as a President is concerned - greatness is something that isn't the result of a man's ambition; it "isn't something that is simply written on a campaign poster. It's something that comes from the hearts and minds of the people of this country, and the man can only be as great as the people are strong. He can only be as great as he represents the deepest feelings, the deepest aspirations, the best ideals of the people." What does this mean? It means that in America we simply have to have developed in our young people particularly a burning faith, an idealism, a recognition of why we came into the world, and what our destiny is, our destiny not to conquer the world, but to free the world, and that these things we will always stand for and that these principles we will never surrender. Where does this come from, this belief in the dignity of men? It comes from the homes. It comes from the churches. It comes from the schools of America, and all of you can help. All of you must work together. And, so these are the things that I believe. My last point: I return to the civil rights point. I can stand here and talk until I'm blue in the face that I'm for civil rights, and I made this ruling and that ruling, and I'm for this legislation and that. Those things are important. Your actions - what's more important, of course, is your whole life, what you believe, from the time that you perhaps had the opportunity to hear you mother or your father instruct you in the matters of this sort. I never forgot an incident that occurred many, many years ago when my grandfather, my mother's father, who was a very - I can say this charitably, I think - saintly man, who died when I was quite young - I never forgot the only time he spoke crossly to me and my brothers. It was a very large family, and we were having a family reunion. We had been to another church. You know, we talk about the differences between churches here, but among Protestants there are differences, among various Protestants, and I assume among various Jewish groups, and so forth. We all have our differences. But in this case our Quaker service was quite restrained and we had attended another church that day. I don't recall what it was, but the preacher was a rather flamboyant type, a lot different, and afterward some of us were talking a little about him, mimicking him and saying he was a terrible preacher, and I remember my grandfather came into the room with us and said to us, to me particularly - he said, "Richard, thee must never say anything about a man of God unless it's something good. If thee doesn't have something good to say, say nothing." So, this lesson lives. It stays. You believe. But beyond that, I have seen the world, and I know, taking this great complexion of Asia and Africa and Latin America - I know particularly above everything else, America can't practice one thing at home and preach something else abroad. One story to illustrate the point: I recall an incident occurring in a British colony - I will leave it unnamed - in 1953 - a magnificent city, very prosperous, clean, fine water supply, and in Asia in 1953 that was very unusual, British colony, nevertheless, and the British, incidentally do one of the best jobs of training people for independence of any, but this colony was not yet ready for independence or was not yet ready to give it. I was talking to a Chinese friend of mine who was in this colony, and he was saying - I said, "How are things here?" He says, "Oh, it's much better than in the mainland of China." He says, "We have the best life perhaps of any city in Asia." And I said, "Well, tell me, however, if the people had a chance to vote, would they vote to continue their colonial status?" He smiled; he said, "They should, for their own good, because materially and otherwise they're better off, but," he said, "they'd vote 90% against continuing it." And I asked "Why?" He said, "Let me tell you a story." He said, "It goes all around Asia." He said, "When the British come in or the Dutch or the French or any other group, they usually build three buildings, three institutions in this order." He said, "First, they build a racetrack, and then, second, they build a church, and third, they build a club to which orientals cannot belong." Now, I would be less than candid if I were not to say that we in this country all have the problem of equality and prejudice and the like. We can say it is a problem of far-off Washington. Why don't these characters pass better laws, but it's got to be decided here. We all have our faults. We must all work together, but I can assure you that if there were no other reason - and, of course, the biggest reason is the matter of simple justice which I tried to illustrate by my first example - that America must simply display to the whole world if she is to be the ideological leader of the world the fact that we really believe in equality, that we believe in the dignity of men, that we do not look down our noses at anybody else, whatever his race, religion, his color. If we can convey that at home by what we do this will help immensely the next President of the United States in winning the battle of freedom for all men. Thank you.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. Dr. and Mrs. Topping, the distinguished guests here on the platform, distinguished guests in the audience in front of me, and all of you distinguished people, and the most important people, the voters here, the first voters, in the colleges who are represented at this meeting, it is, indeed, a very great honor not only for me, but as Dr. Topping indicated, for Pat, my wife, to be here on this campus. This is the first opportunity, I was telling Dr. Topping, that I had ever had to really get a feel of the campus of the University of Southern California. I recall being once at a law school convocation many years ago when I was in the Congress, but certainly to see this great throng today on this, I can say, beautiful California day without smog, is a great thrill, I can assure you. And I know that the format of this meeting is one that will be of interest to you. when I was in college, and I know that here your minds are going to say, "Here it comes," but when I was in college I remember that what I resented as much as anything else was to have a speaker who claimed to be distinguished or was introduced as distinguished, to come in and say what he wanted you to hear; in other words, to spoon feed the audience with his pet ideas. Now, I have quite a few pet ideas, as you can imagine. On the other hand, I know that you have a lot of questions which you would like to ask of both candidates. Dr. Topping has indicated to me that the preferred format is to give each of the candidates an opportunity to speak for 10 minutes or so, and then to have questions for the balance of the period of another 30 minutes or so, and I am delighted to have that opportunity. Both Senator Kennedy and I have had considerable experience in answering questions, as you know, in the past few days, and this will give us some practice for the next debate. So, consequently, I will make my opening remarks brief. I will keep within the 10 minutes, and the president of the student body will have the opportunity, I understand, to put the questions to me that he will also put to Senator Kennedy next week. Two or three items recommend themselves to me which I know will not come up in the questions. It's very seldom that a candidate has an opportunity to say anything about his wife without it being considered to be a purely political reference in a political meeting, but since I'm on the campus of the University of Southern California, I think this will be of interest to you. You know, the standard way to build up candidates is to point out their backgrounds, those particular features of their backgrounds that are distinguished. You may have a distinguished war record, or maybe you've been born in a log cabin, or maybe, as in my case, your father built the house you were born in. Well, whatever the case may be, they also, the speaker introducing you - not today, of course, but usually they go through a rigamarole about this man worked his way through school, and he worked his way through law school, and the like. In my case, that, of course, could appropriately be said. Seldom are these things, of course, referred to as far as the candidate's wife is concerned, and although I'll catch it for reporting this, I'm going to tell you something about my wife, since she is a distinguished alumna of this school. It is true that I did, to an extent, work my way through Whittier College and Duke University Law School, through the benefit of a scholarship. They gave lots of them, incidentally. It wasn't because of any particular ability, I can assure you, but I did have considerable assistance from my parents, who were able to help out to an extent. As far as Pat is concerned, she also worked her way through school, the University of Southern California, but it was a very different situation, a situation that I know some of you here who are working your way through or who are getting help from your parents will appreciate, because her mother died when she was 12 years old, her father when she was 17, and, so, not only did she have no help from home, she had to earn it all the way. And, consequently, that proves who really ought to be running for President. Pat should be running rather than I in view of that background. A second point that I would like to make is this: Your first voters, I am often asked as I travel about the country, about the relative understanding and sophistication of the young people of today, college and university students, as compared with the days that I was in school. Now, you would obviously expect me to say, "Boy, they've slipped and they're going to the dogs," and all that sort of thing, but I can tell you that one of the most inspiring things about this campaign has been to see the tremendous interest in college and university audiences in not only the issues of this campaign, but in the affairs of the world. There are things, I am sure, that can be said critically of American education today at both the primary and secondary and the higher education level, but one thing certainly that cannot be said in criticism is this: Tremendous progress has been made in interesting our college and university students and, for that matter, our high school students, in political matters, and also in interesting them in their responsibilities in the world community. And a great deal more, I can assure you, about the great issues in this campaign than I knew about the issues of the campaigns of 1938 and 1940, in which I was a first voter, after having finished the Duke University Law School, and that certainly is to the credit of the institutions which you are attending. Its a credit to American education generally, and certainly it speaks well for the future. Another point that may not be raised in a question I'll touch upon briefly: People often say, "What do you advise a young man or a young woman who wants to enter political life? What should he take? What kind of subjects should he concentrate on?" Now, the political science teachers are going to hate me, perhaps, for what I'm going to say right now, but, while I think political science serves a very useful purpose, if you have to choose between concentrating on specializing in political science and exposing yourselves to the full to the humanities in the broadest sense, economics and philosophy and history and literature, emphasize the humanities. I say that because these are the times that you can really get the broad understanding that you will never be able to get later. These are the times that you can read and have the time to read that you will never have later, and you can get the opportunity to specialize much later. You can learn about political science by participating in political organizations, and I would say certainly a political science course under the very able people who instruct you in our colleges and universities is worth while, but particularly to those who want to enter public service, if I could leave just one note - Remember, that while the broad background in the humanities and history and literature would seem to be very remote from the problems of Ghana and Cuba, from the problems of what we do about health care and what we do about the filibuster, remember those are the courses that will give you the judgment and the depth that is needed to react properly and intelligently to these great issues when they come before you years later, if you happen to enter public life. The last point that I would make is this: I want everybody here to certainly feel the necessity for, as I put it, going into politics; I don't mean all of you should run for office. We've got pretty much competition as it is, but I do mean by that that both of our major parties have room, and a lot of room, for new blood and new leadership. My party needs it; and the other party needs it, too, and I would only say that if you do go into public service, the rewards financially, obviously, are not going to be particularly good, but the rewards in other ways, of course, are ones that cannot be measured by money. But I'm not speaking of just going into politics as a vocation. I am speaking also of it as an avocation. It isn't enough today, for example, for a man or a woman just to be a good doctor, a competent lawyer, a successful businessman. People who have had the opportunities that you have had to the best educations in the world, and make no mistake about it, when we hear these things about how Soviet education is ahead of us in this field or that, America today has the best education in the world, barring none, overall, and we're going to continue to maintain it the best in the world - and let's make no mistake about it.  But it isn't enough for a man or a woman, as I say, who is a competent technician in his field, immensely successful, to say, "Well, I have rendered my service to my profession." Those who have had the experience that you have had simply have to raise the tone of the political life of your communities, of the State, and the Nation. You know, you often hear mothers, for example, say, "I don't went my son or daughter to go into politics, for reasons which we would all recognize." Now, the only way that can be changed, of course, is for people who are not in politics on a full-time basis to get into it, to see to it that you do at the precinct level, at the other levels, at the local level, see that the political organizations bring to the top the best men and women that we have - and that's the final point that I make. America today can settle for nothing but the best, and my plea to all of you here, whether you're Democrats or Republicans, is this: It is not enough in this campaign to vote as your fathers did or as your mothers did. It isn't enough to vote as someone else may tell you to vote. It isn't enough to vote on the basis of the label you may wear or I may wear. It isn't enough because I'm a Republican and you're registered as a Republican and to vote for me as a Republican. What counts in electing a President in this critical year 1960 is: which of the two parties has produced the man who should come to the top? I'm not going to tell you today and I will not say in this campaign that I am the man. I will present my qualifications, but I do feel it's essential that the American people put the country first and the party second in electing a President in this year, 1960. My 10 minutes have expired, according to the light up here, and your questions are now in order from your president, the president of the student body, I understand. President STEIGERWALT (president of the student body of the University of Southern California). Thank you, Mr. Nixon. On behalf of the University of Southern California and the first-time voters of the Southern California area, we do have several questions we wish to put to you. Our first one is this: What are today's practical differences between the Democratic and Republican parties? The VICE PRESIDENT. I cannot hear the question up here because of the echo. What did you say? President STEIGERWALT. What are the practical differences-- The VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. As I understand, the question is: What are the practical differences between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party? Well, the first part of that answer is that you would have to describe which Democratic Party you're referring to. And that, of course, answers the question in a very much broader sense as well. The parties this year must be judged by their platforms, and, therefore, that means that, as you look at the Republican Party, you look at the Republican candidate for President and his platform; you look at the Democratic candidate for President and his platform, and make your decision on that basis. Now, there are a number of differences that have been drawn out in the course of these debates. I will not try to elaborate on those points at this time. I say again today, as I have said in the past, that the difference as far as general goals are concerned, the good ends, as I would like to put them, that there are no differences between the Democrats and the Republicans of whatever persuasion they may be. I mean by the very general sense that all Americans want a better life, for example, for America. We want progress, better schools, better housing, better medical care, better jobs. We also want a world of peace. We want a world of peace with justice. The question is: How do you reach these goals? Now, for example, if I can use an illustration I have often heard the word "liberal" used, and usually you will find that college and university students like to think that they are liberals, and when people ask me: "Are you a liberal or a conservative?" my answer is that those words have been so contaminated and so corrupted that again you have to define your terms. Let me give you the definition of liberal that I think all of us will subscribe to. As a matter of fact, it's Franklin D. Roosevelt's and this makes it bipartisan, and I agree with him. He said that a liberal is a man who wants to build bridges over the chasms that separate humanity from a better life. A liberal is a man or a woman who wants to build bridges over the chasms that separate humanity from a better life. And, so, we're all liberals in that sense. We all want a better life. We all want to build bridges. The question is: What kind of bridges are they going to be? Now, I want to build bridges, bridges for better schools, better housing, better jobs. I want them to be built out of the strongest materials possible. I want them to be sound. I don't want a Rube Goldberg plan. I don't want one that's tied together with Government red tape. I don't want one that's going to break down in the middle so that we fall in the bottom of the chasm and then have to climb up to the top and start all over again. In other words, I want to build bridges between these various programs that are sound, that are constructive, that will work. It's very easy to say that I'm for this, that, or the other thing. The point is: How do you do it? And my view is this: That I'm what I would call a practical progressive, progressive in the sense I'm for progress, but I'm not for coming before people and saying, "The solution to all of your problems is just to turn the problem over to the Federal Government and let the Federal Government set up a huge new program, which is going to solve your problems." So, if I can conclude the answer, the basic difference that we find in the domestic field - and the foreign policy field will come in a later question, I am sure - is this: Our opponents, as far as their platform is concerned, when you compare it with ours, whether it's schools, housing, or jobs or anything else, always have an obsession that the way to start and the place to start is with the Federal Government and work down to the people. We say the way to start is to start with the people and work up to the Federal Government.  Now, why do I say that? I say that because it works. I say that because the last 7½ years compared with the previous 7½ years shows that we have built more houses, that we built more schools, we've had more progress in education, in health, in jobs, all of these fields, than we had in the previous 7½ years. why? Because this is an administration that has had confidence in, has had faith in, and has stimulated individual enterprise, recognizing that Government has a responsibility to lead, Government has a responsibility to do those things and to supplement in those areas where the individuals or the States cannot or won't do the job, but always pointing out that the Federal Government should not weaken the responsibility of individuals, but should strengthen it. And if I could close my answer by this: The main reason that I have such confidence in, and I put such emphasis on, individual enterprise is this: in the world struggle in which we are engaged, if we make the error of turning too much to huge Government programs which weaken individual enterprise and weaken local and State responsibility, we will weaken the fiber which I think is essential if we are to survive in this struggle. The great advantage the United States has is that we don't tap just what the Federal Government will do primarily. We tap the energies of all of the American people. We tap the people at the individual level. We tap people working together at the State and local level, and we also have the Federal Government - a teamwork policy which produces more progress. Now, my opponent, of course, disagrees, but in this instance, I say: Look at the record. Look also at our programs, and I believe you will find that our programs will produce more and cost less of the tax-payers' money than will his, and I think that's a good bargain for the American people. President STEIGERWALT. Well, sir, what three issues, then, upon which you and Mr. Kennedy seem to differ, do you believe will be the most decisive in bringing voters into your camp and in each case, why do you believe that your stand is particularly decisive? The VICE PRESIDENT. The issues which will prove most decisive are, of course, developing at the present time. They have been developed in the great debates that Senator Kennedy and I have been participating in over the past 3 weeks. I would begin, of course, in the field of foreign policy. I think the major issue that concerns people today is: Which of the two candidates, by experience, judgment and background, can best lead the United States and the free world in this period, keep the peace and keep it without surrender of principle or territory? This is the major issue about which people are concerned. Now, again there is no difference about our aims. We both want peace, and we both want to sustain freedom throughout the world. The question is one of judgment. The question is one of background. The question is one of means. I cannot speak of my own background appropriately as compared with my opponent. That is for you to judge. I can mention my running mate's, and I can only say that I don't know of any man in the world today who has had more experience or, in my opinion, could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. Both of us know Mr. Khrushchev. Therefore, you can be sure that our policies will be ones that will be designed to deal with him as he is, and not as somebody may wish that he were. He is a tough, ruthless, fanatical man, who follows no rules of the game, who cannot be judged by the standards of free world statesmen, and, for that reason, he is a man who must be dealt with never belligerently, but always firmly, and this is true of him and all of his colleagues. Now, as far as the differences are concerned, one of them developed and has developed in the past few days with regard to the offshore islands. Here again the difference is in our estimate of what the Communist reaction will be, in my opinion. Five years ago, in 1955, the Senate passed a resolution giving the President of the United States the power to use the Armed Forces of the United States to defend Formosa against any attack from the Communist mainland. During the course of the debate, an amendment was offered, supported by 12 Senators, only, including Senator Kennedy, an amendment which would have denied to the President the power to use the forces of the United States to defend the two offshore islands of Quemoy and Matsu, which were occupied by and still are occupied by the forces on Formosa. Now, that amendment was defeated 70 to 12, with a majority of the Democrats and a majority of the Republicans voting against the position that Senator Kennedy took. I think the President was right. I sustain that position today. I think that Senator Kennedy is wrong in suggesting that we change that position, and I'll tell you why. It has worked. It has meant that the Chinese Communists in that 5 years have not launched an attack upon Formosa or the offshore islands of a massive type, and I say that the moment that you change the policy and, in effect, draw a line back over those islands and say, "Now, we'll surrender these to you; in effect, we'll turn them over, that this is a policy that does not lead to peace. It is one which inevitably will encourage the Communists and could lead to war. And I'll tell you why. The record with dictators is as consistent as anything in the world's history. We have to go back only to World War II. You remember Hitler. First, it was the Rhineland. Then it was Austria. Then it was Danzig. Then it was the Sudentenland, and every time they said, "He only wants this," but, after all, in the end there had to come a place when he had to be stopped. The answer is that when you're dealing with a dictator, be he a Communist or a Nazi or a Fascist or any kind of a dictator, surrendering territory to him at the point of a gun does not lead to peace; it does not satisfy him, even if he says it will; it only whets his appetite, and it encourages him to push you further. Now, I do not want to see the United States adopt a policy at this time which will encourage a dictator, Mao Tse-tung, to push us to the point where we will get into a war, and that's why I say that this is a period over the last 7½ years in which we have not had retreat in the face of communism. This is no time to change that policy. This is a time to extend freedom, to extend it without war, and you cannot extend freedom by running backwards, and on this I disagree with Senator Kennedy, as I have indicated. I have already indicated the position in the domestic issue, domestic policy, where we disagree. I would only add in that respect that there is a difference in one approach. It is true that Senator Kennedy's programs, his farm program, his education program, his health program, every one of them would cost more money than mine, and sometimes some of my friends come up and say, "Well, Mr. Nixon, how can you say your programs will do more? How can you say you're more for progress in these fields than your opponent, when he'll spend more? Of course, the answer is very simple. It isn't his money or mine that he's spending. It's yours. And for that reason, therefore, here again we get back to our bridge analogy. We want to build bridges. We want them to be strong, but we also want them to be at a price which our children and grandchildren and great grandchildren don't have to pay tolls from now until kingdom come, and, so, that's why I'm for spending as little as we can. President STEIGERWALT. Mr. Nixon, in an evaluation of your own assets, what one ability or abilities would you say most qualifies you and best equips you to be President of the United States The VICE PRESIDENT. That's a question that I generally would prefer not to answer. I have a different view about the Presidency than some have. My study of history has always indicated that this country has elected some Presidents, great ones, who have been Democrats and some who have been Republicans, but the greatness of the President has not been the result of his ambition. It is not something that it written on a campaign poster. It's something that comes from his ability at a particular time in history to represent the deepest ideals, the aspirations, the hopes of the people of a country. I can't say to this audience or to any audience that I am the man who has the qualifications and the background and the like that will produce the greatness that America needs, and I think we need great leadership. I will only say this: I do know the world. I do know the dangers that we face. I do know that America is going to need an effort militarily, economically, spiritually, morally, exceeding anything we have ever had in our country's history. I feel this deeply within me. I can only say that if I have the opportunity, I will, of course, give everything that I possibly can to move America forward militarily, economically, spiritually, and morally, so that we can win the battle of freedom for the world, but whether or not that means that I have the qualifications for greatness only history will determine. And I would say finally in that respect that that will be determined not so much perhaps by what I do - that will count - but it will be determined by what the American people do, because let's never forget this: We speak about the great periods in this Nation's history, but no President can be any greater than the people are - their spirit, their concern for public problems, their interest in the particular issue which confronts us in the world - and if there is one message I would leave with you today it is this: I think that our major problem today is to win the struggle for peace and freedom, and win it without war. A President can lead, but the people of this country have to understand it, and they have to make a tremendous effort if the President is able to lead properly and lead effectively, and that's why I particularly hope that all of you, as you go back into your communities, will be able to inspire the people not to take a parochial view, for example, about foreign aid, that naughty name that some people like to run down. Don't take a parochial view, for example, about civil rights. "Well, I don't need to worry about civil rights, because that's a problem down in the South or that's something that somebody over in the Congress ought to do something about." What we have to remember is that every American in this critical period has got to make his contribution and work for the victory of freedom, as the Communists are being driven to work for the victory of communism.  And if the next President can inspire that in the people of this country, he may turn out to be a great President. Otherwise, he may not.  Now, that doesn't answer the question and qualifications. It does indicate to you my attitude toward the position.  President STEIGERWALT. Mr. Nixon, I believe that we are about out of time. I would like to thank you, not only on behalf of the University of Southern California, but indeed all the first-time voters of this area.
Mr. Ritter has already indicated that in the course of a campaign many speeches are made, that in the course of a campaign particularly for an occasion like this the group expects a speech of some significance. Those of you who know me know that while I am campaigning one thing I very much dislike to do is to read a speech, even if I have written it. Also, I even go further than that. I don't even like to use notes, whether they're allowed or not. But, whatever the reason is, there are occasions in the campaign when the statement is considered to be of such importance and which, therefore, must be so carefully drawn that it must be read, and I thought that this organization was one that would perhaps be a fitting one in which I could make a major statement on foreign policy. So, I have selected this organization for that purpose, and I appreciate the opportunity to present to you one of the first major statements in the field of foreign policy that I am making in the course of this campaign, certainly the first major statement covering the particular subjects or areas of foreign policy that I will be discussing tonight. Now, mentioning foreign policy, of course, immediately raises a question in the minds of all the listeners as to what is the overriding issue in the campaign. There's no doubt, incidentally, about what the people think. It isn't, of course, true that that is the only thing people are thinking about because, as you travel about the country, you will find that farmers are concerned about their farm income and workers are concerned about jobs as they would very well be, and people in the North, East, West, and South have regional and sectional interests that differ a great deal, but the issue of foreign policy is the one that overrides them all. It's the one that joins them all, and in my travels of 53,000 miles I have found that there isn't any question about that. I say there are other issues, of course, in which people are interested. There are many who want promises made. I think probably the most interesting one was the other day when we were in - I think it was - Cleveland and a little boy ran up to the car as we were going down the middle of the street. He was about 12 years of age, and he said, "Mr. Vice President, will you make me a promise?" And I said, "What is it?" He said, "Will you promise a 4-day week for school?" I could have made the promise to him, and he would have liked me, but his mother would have hated me, I am sure. But, be that as it may, that is an indication of other interests. But, coming to the heart of the problem, whether it's a 4-day week for school or whether it is jobs or whether it is health or education or welfare, whatever the case might be, we all know that every place in the Nation people are most concerned about developing policies in which we can keep the peace in this Nation, keep it without surrender, so that we can enjoy the solutions that we work out for all of these domestic problems with which we are concerned. As far as that particular issue of keeping the peace, as it has often been stated, I have found that, as I have traveled about the country, there has been a growing concern and a growing desire on the part of people, a unanimity on one subject. It's really phrased, I believe, as a command, as a mandate, to whoever is the next President of the United States, and it's the conviction of the American people. I believe their conviction can be expressed in these words: Win the struggle for peace and freedom - not just hold the line for America; not just keep what we have, but win the struggle which is going on all over the world for peace and freedom. I believe the American people want that. All of us agree as a people and as individuals our chief concern must be, of course, the security of the Republic and our chief purpose leadership of the world in the crusade for the preservation and strengthening of peace and freedom. Now, no presidential candidate could, in good conscience, guarantee to free the Nation from worry and anxiety every day of his term, particularly as far as this great issue of foreign policy is concerned. The creation of tension, we must recognize is a fixed practice of the Communist rulers, and I might suggest, too, they will be encouraged to make even more trouble, to engage in this practice of creating tension even more, as long as they believe that a Communist-manufactured crisis anywhere will provoke among ourselves irrational fears that America is slipping, that America is second rate in ideas and that we're bankrupt in purposes. The question, then, in this period is not whether we have crises; it isn't whether we have trouble. The question is how we handle it because we're going to have crises, we're going to have trouble, because they are going to be stirring it up - and I say to the credit of the American people we have been handling our troubles quite well, I believe, particularly in these last few years. Also, tonight I do not tell you that the Federal Government can or should relieve you and those that you represent, your readers, as citizens of all responsibility and care in the achievement of peace with justice. That would be the easy thing to do, to say: "Turn it over to the President. Elect the right man as President, and he will lead the Nation to greatness." That would be the easy thing to do, to say: "Turn these affairs over to government. If we get a right kind of government, then this will solve our problems." The Federal Government can do some things. It can focus the energies of the Nation in a given area on a given situation for the attainment of a given goal, but Government efforts in these matters is often suspect and ultimately it is sterile unless accompanied, as it has been throughout American history, by the works and prayers of individuals, individuals who see themselves as responsible stewards of a golden heritage and a great destiny, who see their fellow men as seekers after a like heritage and worthy partners in a like destiny. This, as you know, is the 70th birthday of President Eisenhower. I talked to him on the phone at 6 :30 this morning, incidentally, our time and also sent him a wire indicating that he now has reached this very enviable position: He's the oldest President in years ever to be in the White House, but the youngest in spirit certainly at the very same time. Not only because it's his birthday, but because the words he spoke are such fine guidelines for our times, I quote from something he said a few years ago: "Peace is more the product of our day-to-day living than of a spectacular program intermittently executed." During his administration we have created and we have crossed a momentous divide in the affairs of men. Behind us lie the dreary and dangerous years of confusion and indecision, in which communism advanced across Eastern Europe and the mainland of China, enveloping three quarters of a billion people. During these last 7½ years we have arrested this forward march of communism because his inspired leadership gave direction and force to the tenacity of America in its quest for peace among men. Although there may be, very properly, criticisms of the policies the President has followed in this field and in others, none of the criticism can take away the fact that under his leadership we have ended one war; we have kept the Nation out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and this will be something for which the people will always be grateful to him. We hear a great deal about the fact that our prestige is slipping, that we do not have the initiative, that it's Mr. Khrushchev who dominates the news, and Mr. Castro and others, but I think that when we actually look at what happens we can realize that the world outside the Communist walls has listened to President Eisenhower and has heeded what he has said. Look at the performance - I call it that because it was more than just a speech at the United Nations. Compare it with that of his colleague and opponent, Mr. Khrushchev. We can look at the votes in the General Assembly. All of these are witnesses to the plain fact that America's leadership is worthy today and that it is trusted; and, beside these achievements, the fomented riots and turmoil in some areas should be recognized for what they are - unavailing efforts of Communists to wage an assault on freedom; and, whether it is an attempt of the Communists to block the President's trip to Tokyo or whether it is an attempt of the Communists to work violence upon the Vice President and his wife in Caracas, we Americans in these years ahead must never make the mistake of blaming ourselves and our friends and allies for what the Communists are doing and what they are instigating. Certainly the experience in Japan is one of which we can be proud, because there, after all the words of doom and gloom were written and spoken, after we thought that our policies in Japan needed a complete reexamination because the Communist-led mobs blocked the President's visit there, we did not change our policy toward Japan. We continued to be their friend. We didn't lose our head. We recognize that the majority of the people of Japan disapproved of that activity, and today the relations with Japan and the United States have never been better, and they will continue to be stronger if we continue along this line. Up to this point I have been speaking about the past. I now want to turn to what we'd do in the future. We have stopped in these last 7½ years the aggressive march of communism across borders, but today it confronts us in new forms and faces, new forms and faces which present an even more challenging task than when it confronted us with armies marching across borders, and I think, therefore, it is time today to launch the great new effort designed to meet this new offensive. It must be a new effort, an all-out offensive, for peace and freedom, for victory without war. Now, how do we go about this task? Well, first, we begin, as all of us will agree, by seeing to it that the United States is the strongest nation in the world. Second - and here the agreement may not be as great, but certainly it is just as important - we must see to it that we forge a strategy of victory in what I would call the nonmilitary struggle for freedom - and there will be no higher responsibility of the next President in this next decade. Now, to that end, the two ends that I have described I have some specific proposals to make tonight. First, immediately after the next administration is inaugurated, if I were a part of it, it would be my purpose to convene a council of our defense leaders - the civilian Secretaries of Defense, Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the commanders of our major military organizations at home and overseas. I would direct these leaders to reexamine completely all the implications, both of Soviet policy and the rapid pace of technological change and to reevaluate, in the light of these factors, the long pull of defense policies which, under the President's leadership, have kept the peace with honor for the last 7½ years. I would work with these leaders in the development of policies which will insure that America, which is, as I have indicated, already the strongest nation in the world, will maintain this superiority throughout the sixties and beyond, regardless of technological developments, regardless of what the Communists may do. This we must do, and this we must be prepared to pay for, and if the cost should be greater - and my estimate is it is more likely to be greater than less - the American people, I am confident, will be willing to pay what is necessary to see that we continue to have the strength that will allow us to be the guardians of peace and freedom, as we are today. Now I would like to turn to the nonmilitary part of our program. This one is more difficult to explain, more difficult to gain public support for, but in the end can be and probably will be more decisive, because here is where the battle will actually be waged. Our military strength will create the stalemate which we have been having for the past 7½ years. In this nonmilitary area we need the offensive for freedom, and what does this mean? It requires - and I emphasize - the total mobilization of all of our natural resources and of the resources of the free world. Now, this is not a task that can be left to the President alone. It is not a task that can be left to the Government alone. The President can and he must exercise leadership toward mobilization of our energies, but our ultimate success - if we're going to have it, we're going to have to have heroic support of the people, as they have given it even in times of shooting wars. As far as Government is concerned, and the part that it plays, this is very clear. I have already announced - and, incidentally, I will spell this out in greater detail in a later speech - that I would request the Vice President, my long-time associate, Henry Cabot Lodge, to coordinate all the resources and activities of the Federal Government in the nonmilitary area. I am speaking here now of those activities that cut across all the agencies of Government - the activities of the State Department in the diplomatic area, the activities of the Treasury Department in the field of loans, the activities of the Commerce Department and the Agriculture Department, and all the rest, all of these coordinated under the day-to-day leadership, under the direction of the President, of the Vice President of the United States. All Government agencies taking part in this vital undertaking would be brought together in a union of effort so that no energy, no capability is unused or wasted. Heretofore, the major effort of Government in this cause has been to counter the Communist propaganda attack and to assist newly independent and underdeveloped nations to make a start toward a better life for their people. We have done a very admirable job in many, many ways, but we need now a stepped-up program. We need now a better coordinated and directed program. We need now, one, a program in which we are not only countering, but in which we are taking the initiative in nation after nation around the world for the cause of peace and freedom, and in which all of our Government activities are welded together under central direction and day-by-day direction as I have indicated. In that connection, I would like to say that, while referring to my own qualifications as against those of my opponent would be improper, I think I can properly say that I don't know of any man in the world today who is better qualified by experience or could have done a better job fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than my colleague, Henry Cabot Lodge, as the Ambassador to the United Nations. Now, it would be very easy to stop here, and this too often is our tendency. The President will do these things. He will lead. The Government will do these things. But if we stop here we are failing to make use of the major and unique advantage that the United States and the free nations have in this struggle. All that the Soviet Union and the Communist nations offer is government activity, but that government activity is the total activity of the whole people. Government is everything in a Communist country. As we know, in a free country like ours, Government plays an important part; but the more important part, the greatest creativity in a free country, is not from Government, but from individuals. Therefore, if we are to wage the struggle for peace and freedom effectively, we cannot simply have it waged by the Government sector of what we call America. We must bring into play the tremendous creative ability and imagination of 180 million free Americans, and it's to this point that I would like to talk at this time. We can't measure what I am talking about in material terms because here we have a wealth of dedication and commitment of knowledge and inspiration communicated directly to the peoples of the world. Let me just indicate some of the things that will bring, of course, recollections and memories to you. We are engaged, in addition to strictly governmental action, in a program that is so immense that few can really comprehend it. Take our churches. Literally thousands of them in every State in the Nation are committed to a sustained and enduring concern, using that Quaker term in its best sense, a concern for their fellows everywhere who are in need. The world is dotted - and all of you who have traveled abroad, as my wife and I have, know that the world is dotted - with schools and hospitals and centers of assistance in every field of human improvement, supported entirely by the churches and the synagogues and the meeting houses of America. Some of the most exciting people abroad that I have seen have been not government officials - some of them have been doing splendid work - but people of this kind. I remember a priest that I met in Vietnam. He had been there for 25 years working for the Vietnamese. As a matter of fact, he spoke English with a Vietnamese accent, he had been there so long, and he was loved by those people as not even one of their own people could be loved because of the work he was doing. I remember a Seventh Day Adventist hospital that my wife visited in Burma, and I recall the tremendous affection that the people in that hospital had for those who were there serving them in that way. More illustrations could be given, but let us never underestimate the tremendous power for good that the churches of America, for example, have contributed to in the past and are contributing to today all over the world. Take our colleges and universities. Thousands of individuals in those colleges and universities are concentrating their knowledge and wisdom, unwarped by ideological pressures, on the study of problems in the most distant places of the earth. In addition, they are using this knowledge in operating great educational programs in all parts of the world, and we have seen them. We've seen them in the Philippines. We've seen them in India. We have seen them in South America. We have seen them in countries throughout the world. In countless American communities - I imagine in every community represented by the publishers here - groups of men and women, joined in service, professional and social organizations, are voluntarily engaged upon specific efforts to insure individuals abroad educational opportunities, good teachers, adequate support, and entire communities in distant places a better chance for health or knowledge. These are not Government activities. These are activities that come from the heart of American people and, because they come from the heart of the American people, they have an immense effect on the heart of the world - and that is what the struggle for the world eventually will be decided upon, we can be sure. Together, in other words, they constitute a phenomenal demonstration of American concern for the freedom and the betterment of humanity, and they must be encouraged, they must be coordinated, where possible, with Government effort, and they must be greatly increased and tapped even more than they have been in order to further the cause of freedom, because - I again emphasize - it is our total effort that will count, not just what Government does; and we must remember that what individuals do, non-Government activities are never suspect and, therefore, their contribution must be stepped up, and it can be. What can the next President of the United States do about this? I would suggest that before he takes office he should extend an invitation to a meeting in Washington, perhaps the last week of December, for 100 men and women representing a cross section of America's life. Such a meeting would have an agenda which would be open to all ideas that serve the cause of peace and freedom. This group would pool its knowledge and experience in reviewing, first, what America is doing now. It would also go into what is more effective and less effective about what we are doing, where we succeed and where we miss the mark, what resources we are using best and how we can use them better. The group would make recommendations to the incoming President as to Government action. In addition, the group would submit suggestions for renewed effort by all elements of the Nation - non-Government I am speaking of - for advancing the cause of freedom. Here, in other words, we would be tapping the best thinking not only of the dedicated people in government, but of the best thinking of America as a whole to determine what government should do and and what people outside of government should do - and on a basis never actually, I think, surpassed before. I am confident that such a mobilization of America's brainpower and heart power would have a significant impact on the course of the global struggle, but I must point out that it is not enough for us to re-double our own efforts, public and private, in this cause. The total resources of the free world, not just America, but of the free world, must be mobilized if all within it are to share the future's promise. In recent weeks we have seen again what the United States can do to buttress peace and freedom when solidly supported by American purpose and spurred by American effort. We must reinforce the United Nations in all possible ways so that it will continue to represent and defend the aspirations of all mankind, as it did in Korea, as it did in Lebanon and it has in the Congo. Now, the Communist leaders, with their rude and threatening conduct at the current General Assembly meeting, have shown, it seems to me, a pattern of intent which is really reminiscent of Hitler and Mussolini prior to Munich. They have the same threatening luster. They have the same bullying tactics. They are designed to frighten the free nations into paying an unpayable price for a phantom peace. This time the price is Communist domination of the United Nations, itself. Our answer to the Communist leaders must be that the free nations will not be intimidated. There is to be no new Munich - not in the United Nations, not anyplace in the world will this happen, because if there is one lesson that we Americans have learned over the past quarter of a century it is this in dealing with dictators: a policy of military strength and diplomatic firmness leads to peace. A policy of military weakness and/or diplomatic concessions leads inevitably to war. You will always find - and history is complete with it - that those who, with the best of intentions, suggest that we can surrender this section or this one to a dictator, and that this may stop his appetite, are guessing exactly wrong, because the opposite is always the effect - and this is particularly true of those who run the Communist empire. We speak, for example, of the leaders in Moscow. We can look also to the leaders in Communist China. Their aim, of course, is not the offshore islands. Their aim is not Formosa. Their aim is the world, and we must constantly keep this in mind as we make any decisions or any statements with regard to what we should do. This is why I think the President of the United States was correct. That is why an overwhelming majority of the Senate was correct when it voted 70-12 in 1955 to indicate that the President of the United States should have the power to commit the forces of this country to stop Communist aggression designed to attack the position of freedom in Formosa. That is why it was proper, by the vote that I have indicated, for the Senate of the United States, a majority of Democrats and Republicans alike, to resist the well-intentioned efforts of those who said, "We will draw a line; we will leave part of the area out and say, 'We will only defend this,'" because once the line is drawn it is an invitation not only to take over that part which you leave out, but it is an invitation for the dictator to ask for even more and the next time you may not be able to stop without retractions, as we know. Now, if I may turn to the course ahead, I have a third proposal, a third proposal for a series of regional conferences of state - and these conferences, incidentally, would take place in the first year of the next administration - bringing together of the heads and leaders of government of all the free nations of Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia. Why would we have such conferences? These would be their objectives: First, to strengthen the peaceful mission of the United Nations and, second, the strengthening of the free nations, politically, economically, socially and militarily. Even before the new administration takes office I would seek the cooperation of the President in requesting that the Secretary of State explore during the December meeting, this December, of the NATO Council of Ministers the expansion of the spring meeting of that council into a conference of heads of government. The time also is at hand quickly to revitalize our regional security arrangements which have been made in accordance with the United Nations Charter. I would ask the NATO governments to consider the feasibility of still closer ties and reinforcement of our existing provisions for mutual defense and mutual benefit. There is, moreover, a pressing need in the Atlantic Community for an institution to coordinate and direct aid to the underdeveloped countries. I said last night on television, as some of you may recall, that it was essential that the United States get more assistance from our allies abroad and our former enemies abroad who we have helped to restore their power, more assistance from them in this common enterprise of serving the cause of peace and freedom throughout the world. This would be directed toward that end. This program increasingly should be a shared burden. It should be a common plan among the many increasingly prospering Western nations. The very creation of such an institution would help not only to remove conflicts in this field, but also to quicken the sense of common purpose binding the participating nations. Let's turn to the Western Hemisphere. The United States has already taken an active lead in bringing the American Republics together to plan common action for achieving such goals as land reform, decent housing, development of industrial programs and realization of the great potential of the Andes. Now, we must proceed rapidly with these steps which were successfully inaugurated at Bogotá at that conference last month. Toward this end, I believe we should invite the heads of government of the American Republics to join us in a new conference specifically to consider the overall political, economic, and military problems most susceptible to further common action. Such regional actions, moving toward confederation, is an imperative of our times. Now, in addition to these conferences of state with heads of government in the Western European Community and in the Western Hemisphere, I believe there should be an early undertaking of a similar nature with the leaders of the newly emerging nations of Africa. What would this be? These efforts could be designed to determine ways and means by which the United States, which now pays a great part of this burden, and the other free nations could best assist these new states with their great problems incident to their transition to new political, economic, and social reforms. Let me point this out: Again many well-intended people, in speaking of the great continent of Africa, tend too often to say that the answer is simply in pouring billions of dollars into Africa in the form of loans or grants and the like. I can say that pouring billions of dollars into any newly developing country that is not ready to use it effectively would do more harm than good and would be a very great mistake for us to engage in that kind of policy. The analogy of the Marshall plan is often used, but we forget that the Marshall plan funds were sent into nations which had a core of people, political, economic and others, who were able to use those funds, direct them into the proper channels, so that they could build themselves up. You cannot apply that same formula to newly developing countries, with very few people in many instances, who have the ability to run an economy or even run the political forms which they have in these countries. They need assistance on the economic side, true, and we, and our allies, must help to provide it; but they need assistance, also, and a great deal, in training men and women in the technical and administrative skills of the modern state. They need help in bringing their economies toward high standards of productivity, but bringing that without loss of freedom, through freedom, rather than at the cost of freedom. Finally, I propose there should also be an early conference of Asian leaders to examine similar programs for the new and old nations of this great and important area. Now, Ambassador Lodge and I would expect to participate in these conferences of state and to carry on the work flowing out of them in the months and years ahead. I also can announce tonight that I intend to invite Governor Rockefeller, of New York, to work closely with me, to the extent that the duties of his office would permit, in pressing forward these efforts, especially those looking toward regional confederations to which I have referred, a matter to which he has devoted much original study and thought. And I am happy also to be able to tell you tonight that, in advancing these worldwide initiatives, we would have available the wise guidance and the rich experience of President Eisenhower. I have consulted with him, as late as this morning, I should say, and earlier, too, and I have his assurance that even after his lifetime of dedicated service to our country, he will remain ready, after leaving the White House, to continue his heroic work for peace and freedom throughout the world. And, so, in summary, I plan to use the conference of military leaders, the conference of citizens, the conferences of state with world leaders to forge programs of action, programs that will assure that we continue to deal with the forces of international communism from a position of strength, programs that will demonstrate to the peoples of the world that the American people will travel the second mile in order to help them achieve their highest potential, programs that will serve notice that the free world is united in its determination to preserve and to strengthen freedom. With these combined efforts, our own and those of our friends and allies among the free nations, intensifying the quest for peace and freedom, great new forces for the benefit of mankind will surely be set in motion. So, there is our goal, and I would say, in conclusion, that I am confident of the outcome. I am confident that the new nations will live in freedom and independence long after the Communist system has succumbed to its inherent weaknesses. I am confident, too, that we can be certain that freedom so dear to the countries of eastern Europe, countries like Poland where my wife and I saw it so eloquently - that they will have freedom again. We in the United States must never accept the present situation in Eastern Europe as anything but temporary. As long as we keep the hope, we can be sure that eventually the hope will be realized. Then, may I add a caveat: The tasks I have set forth here will not he easy, nor will the distance be short. There are going to be successes, but there may be setbacks, as the Communists relentlessly pursue their purposes. There are two dangers - and this I emphasize above all - that we Americans must avoid at all cost: First, there is the danger of fatigue in this struggle, a tiring in the sustained effort required for the victory of freedom, because we can be sure that they will not tire. They say over and over again that they will wait, 25 years, 50 years, a hundred years, if necessary, and we have to outwork, outlast, and we can do it if we know what we have to do. And, second, the second danger: That our fiber will be weakened by a morbid anxiety over our national health, and a disposition to reassess our standing among our friends and our allies every time the sun sets. What we need, we whose ears are often deafened, whose eyes are often fogged by the propaganda of menace and the propaganda of doubt - what we need, putting it very simply, is a burning faith in America. We can call it a simple faith in America, a simple faith that heartened our ancestors and today inspires our children. This is what this great struggle demands, and this is an absolute imperative upon every one of us. And, so, I say to you: Let us have the courage and the confidence that inspired our forebears through generations of adventure and enterprise and trial and hard-won triumph that ignited in peoples everywhere dreams of a like march toward great goals. Proud of America's yesterday, unafraid of America's tomorrow, we will not and we cannot let down in our great cause. Thank you.
Senator Kuchel, Senator Fong, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and my friends here in my home district, the 25th District of California, I want you to know that we will have many crowds in this campaign in the next 3½ weeks, and we've had many in the last couple of months, but there are none that will touch us more than this one, that will move us more, because this is our home, and we thank you for coming out and giving us this wonderful welcome as we return to our home district. As you can imagine, a great many thoughts went through Pat's and my mind as we were driving up the freeway to West Covina. I recall the first campaign that we ever participated in in 1946, and I remember then the little towns we stopped in: Covina and Baldwin Park and El Monte. All of them, of course, at the present time put together would probably not equal the population of even West Covina. I remember, too, the people who participated in that campaign. Of course, it was a long time ago - 14 years - makes us realize how old we are, and I remember people like Roy Day. I remember the members of the Fact-Finding Committee. Here is Ernest Geddes over here and Monte Burke - so many who have participated in that campaign. I remember, too, the fact that literally in this audience are thousands of people who in that campaign and in the one in 1948 and 1950 and ever since then have helped us on the road to success in these political campaigns. And, so, you can imagine that this is a particular and special occasion for us, not only because you've came out in such great numbers on such a beautiful day to spend this time with us, but also because it is for us a homecoming and a reminder of how much has happened and how much we owe to you. So, we thank you again today. I also want to say that the opportunity to appear on this platform with my fellow candidates is one that I've been looking for. I want this district to be represented by a man who will be a member of our party, but above that, a man who is the best man for the job and who will be a great Congressman, John Rousselot, and I'm glad to be here with him. And, of course, it's like old times, Monte, to say something about you. This is partly your district, but Monte Burke who has been in the 53d for so many years is here. I'm glad to see that Tag Manning is also, who is going to be the next assemblyman from my own home district over in Whittier, and also Hugh Fluorney. Let me say this: The reason I mentioned all of these other candidates is this, my friends: You know, everybody can get tremendously excited about a presidential campaign. We get Nixonettes and we get bands, and we have tremendous crowds, but let me say that government at every level is important, and I urge all of you not to forget those running for the assembly and for the House of Representatives, because each one of them counts and each one of them means a great deal to the kind of government you get. So, may I urge all of that support for them. Finally, as I stand here, may I also say how much this district has changed. This particular rally, for example, is being held in a city that did not exist when I ran for Congress in 1946. As a matter of fact, when in 1952 I participated in the first presidential campaign as a candidate for Vice President, there weren't enough people in this area to have a special meeting. In fact, as I look here at this great shopping center, built only 3 years ago, I realize how greatly this area is growing and how it's expanding. The first thing I want to say today with regard to this meeting is this: We've been hearing a lot of talk in the past few days and weeks and months to the effect that this American economy of ours has ground to a standstill. We haven't been moving, and we've got to get going again. We've got to start moving America again. Well, my friends, anybody who says America's been standing still for the last 7½ years hasn't been traveling around America. He ought to come out here and take a look at it and he would see what has happened because, you see, the difficulty is the people who say that America hasn't been moving aren't thinking of the real America. They are only thinking of what a bunch of bureaucrats do in Washington, D. C. They're only thinking of how much money they can spend in Washington, D.C. What is America? What makes it grow? What is the biggest part of America? Here it is - individual enterprise, people who want to invest in the future of America - and let's never forget it. That's why we stand behind it, and that's why our policies will produce the progress that the other side talks about, and that's what America wants in this campaign and what we are going to give them in this election as well. I know that there are so many subjects that you are interested in today. I would like to touch on just a few of them, those that I know are closest to your hearts and those that I know will be of greatest interest to you particularly in this audience. I see people who are probably here to shop, some of you, and I hope, incidentally, that since the May Co. has been so kind to let their facilities be used you go in there and shop - and I own no stock in the company. I want to make that clear, too. But many of you, too, have taken time off from your businesses or your chores at home to come out. So, at this point, I think the question which first comes into all of our minds is this: What test should we apply in electing a President of the United States? I would like to tell you what I think you should be thinking about. There's a disagreement here between the two candidates. One, my opponent says that the party is what counts. I am going to tell you what counts. In this year, 1960, when the man who is elected President of the United States must not only lead this country, but the free world, what counts above everything is not the party, but America - and let's vote for what's best for America - and I say that to all of you, Democrats, Republicans, and independents. Now, what does America want? What kind of leadership does it need? And here again we come back to those of you who are here in this great audience. Think of yourselves, your own positions. What do you want? Well, we want a lot of things from government, if we can get them. We at least want the opportunities under good government to have the opportunity to get these things that I'm going to refer to. We all want good jobs. We want good incomes. We'd like to see that the prices that we pay in the May Co. and the various stores and the like don't go skyrocketing so that they eat up everything we get in increased wages. We also want some other things. We want progress in this country. We want to move forward. We want to move forward as this district has moved forward. We want better schools, better housing, better medical care, everything that has made America the greatest country in the world, that will make her even greater, because let's understand one thing here today above everything else: America hasn't been standing still. She's been moving. We've had the greatest progress in these last 7 years than we've had in the history of any administration, but we're not satisfied. My dad always used to tell us when we were growing up that he never wanted us to go back to the good old days and that we should never be satisfied with things as they are, good as they were, but in America we always want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves. That's what I want. That's what you want, and these are the things that we're going to have and the things we will produce with our programs, I can tell you today as I speak to you in my own home district. Now, I want to agree right at the outset that I have no monopoly on being for better jobs and housing and schools and all these things that Americans want. What is the difference, then, between my approach and our opponent's approach? Well, the difference is, first in our record. We produce and they don't. And you can take the 7 Eisenhower years, compare them with the 7 Truman years, and we've got them licked on everything, including keeping the peace. And when my opponent, incidentally, talks about going to new frontiers let's remember you can't cross a new frontier in an old jalopy; and when he says, for example, that he's going to go back - and this he has failed to deny, and he can't, because this is what he wants to do - to the old policies we left in 1953, I say America doesn't want to go back. They want to go forward. We had enough of what we had then in 1953 and we want to go forward now, and that's where we're going to take you in these next 4 years if we have this opportunity. But, in addition to the record, we also have something else. Why will our programs why do they, produce more? Why are they better for you, for everybody, regardless of party? Well, because we have the system that will produce progress. Let me put it this way: Our opponents - whenever there's a problem, whatever you want, they say, 'Oh, we've got a terrible problem here and we can't solve it; the people can't solve it; and the States can't solve it; and the city of West Covina can't solve it; and, so, we'll run over to Washington and we'll set up a great, big Washington bureau; we'll spend a lot of money, and we'll solve the problem." In other words, every time there's a problem they say start with Washington and work down to the people, and we have exactly the opposite philosophy. We say the way to progress in America is not to start with the Federal Government and work down, but to start with the American people and work up to the Federal Government; that that is the way to progress. Now, let me say this particularly to the young people who are listening here. Why do I believe this? It would be much easier for me to tell all of these young people going to school, entering the job market and the like, "Look, you don't have anything to worry about. The Federal Government is going to take care of you. They're going to furnish you your jobs, and they're going to take care of your medical care, and they are going to take care of your housing and all that sort of thing. All you've got to do is turn your money over to them and they'll do everything for you." I could say that. It would be very easy, and some might say "But this is what I want - somebody who's going to promise everything so that life will be easy." But, my friends, just remember this: It's very easy for a politician to make a promise, but remember: It's very hard for him to keep it - and also remember that he shouldn't make a promise that he can't keep. Let me give you an example. The other day when I was in Philadelphia we were going through a tremendous crowd of people and a young boy came rushing up to the car, and he was about 12 years old and he says, "Mr. Nixon, will you make a promise?" And I said, "What is it?" He said, "Will you be for a 4-day week for kids in school?" That's what he said. Now, I could have told him and I could tell you over here, "Yep, I'll promise you a 4-day week in school." But it wouldn't be good for you, and your parents wouldn't like me for it at all. In addition to that, it wouldn't be good for America. No, the question isn't making promises that are going to weaken Americans, weaken our responsibilities. We've got to be a strong country, and the way you're strong is to put responsibility on people, not take it off. Look, we talk about new frontiers. How was America developed? How did we cross the frontier? This wasn't an operation by government, but this was an operation by pioneers, individual Americans, who had courage and stamina and responsibility - and it's this pioneer spirit that America needs today to stay ahead of the Soviet Union, and it's what I'm going to work for in the next 4 years to see that we have. And, so, I say to you: The reason that my programs will work where my opponent's will not is that we stimulate and we call upon the greatest engine of progress ever developed in the history of the world. You know what it is? Not the Federal Government. Not the State government. Not the government of West Covina. I'll tell you what it is. It's 180 million free Americans with an opportunity to make their own way and to make their own contribution to the greatness of the country - and that's what I stand for. Now, government has some responsibilities, of course, to do those things which will stimulate the economy, to do those things to see that no Americans are left behind as all Americans move forward. For example, I remember the most exciting day of my life, other than the day a Pat said "Yes." This is going to surprise you. It wasn't the day I was nominated for President, as you might imagine, or elected Vice President or Congressman or Senator. It was the day in 1934 that I got a scholarship to go to law school. If I hadn't gotten that scholarship in 1934, I wouldn't have gone to law school. I wouldn't have been able to. What I'm trying to say is this: That today there are literally hundreds of thousands of young men and young women who have the ability to go to college and who can't afford it. Now, what are we going to do about it? How are we going to do something to see that the talents of these young people are not wasted, because America can't afford to waste and not fail to discover a great scientist or a great engineer or great lawyer or great doctor among that group who couldn't go to college? Now, the easy thing to say would be, "Well, the Federal Government will take care of all of this problem." But that isn't the best way. The Federal Government takes part of it, and here's a program I think all of you will agree with: First, the Federal Government continues to furnish loans for those who are unable to have the money and who will eventually be able to earn the money to pay it back. Second, there will be a limited number of scholarships for those who simply have no funds, would not be able to pay it back, and those who have extraordinary ability. Third, and here's the key to the program, in order to stimulate the American way to solve this problem, I say that we should give tax credits and tax deductions to parents who send their children to college so that they can afford to send their people to college. That's one difference, one difference between my program and my opponent's. There is doing it the American way. The other is the Federal Government way. Let's go on a little bit further. You've heard a lot about medical care for the aged, and I feel very strongly about that. In my own home district I can speak of my father. You remember - many of you probably do - he died in 1956, 4 years ago, when he was 75. The year he died I remember that he had very heavy medical bills - ran over $2,000. My mother that year also had an operation. Her bills ran around $1,500. As you know, my parents were not wealthy people. Paying those hills was a very great burden to them. And not only because I have known this and felt it, but also because I know the tragedy that can come to hard working people, who worked all their lives and saved their money and then have the disaster of a major illness hit them after their earning days are over, I feel that we've got to have a program in which these people can take care of themselves and do it without going simply on charity. Now, how can we do it? We have two programs here. We have a choice. My opponent says the thing to do is to have the Federal Government take over and to force everybody, except for 3 million who need it the most, into a system of compulsory health insurance whether they want it or not over 65. You know what my program is? I say that every person over 65 who ought to have health insurance, who wants it, should be able to get it and the Federal Government should set up a program so they should be able to afford it; second, that everybody who ought to have it should be encouraged to get it, but I also say that no one who does not want health insurance should be forced to have it against his will, so that we can maintain the private system in this country which is essential for medical care. So much for these two examples. I use them for these young people particularly. It shows you how we approach these problems, retaining individual enterprise, building on it, rather than supplementing it completely by Federal Government activities. Now, if I might turn to another subject, the last one, the most important of all, what could be more important than medical care, I am sure some of you may ask, or jobs, schools, the 4-day week in schools? What could be more important that all these things? Well, you know. The ability to be able to be around to enjoy them - and I say, as I said last night and as I will say throughout this campaign, that the most important issue in this campaign is this: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency is best qualified, by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace, but keep the peace without surrender of principle or territory for the United States and the world? This is the great issue. Now, here again we have two different approaches. I can speak of our qualifications in this respect. First, we proved that we know how to do it. Oh, you've heard everything that's wrong about the Eisenhower foreign policy. I'm part of it. Cabot Ledge is part of it. We have been for 7 years. But, my friends, all the criticism can't obscure the truth that every one of you know. In 1953 we were in a war, and today we find that, as a result of President Eisenhower's leadership, we have gotten out of one war; we've kept out of others, and we do have peace without surrender, and we want to keep the policies that have resulted in that very program. Now, what are those policies? Those policies are: first, military strength. We've got to continue to be the strongest nation in the world. Second, economic strength. We've got to see that we stay ahead of the Soviet Union, and we will do that. It also means firm diplomacy, nonbelligerent. I mean by that we're always willing to go the extra mile, and with Cabot Lodge we will strengthen the United Nations; we will work together to see to it that every instrument of peace will be strengthened so that we can handle situations like the Congo without war and without U.S. involvement unilaterally. But let us also remember that when you're dealing with men like Mr. Khrushchev and Mr. Mao Tse-tung you can't be naive. You can't assume that they're going to react like the leaders of the free world would react. Cabot Lodge and I have this one - I would say - point to recommend us: We both know Mr. Khrushchev, and the voters know that we will know how to handle them where situations arise - and this is tremendously important. I spoke last night, for example, of a situation out in the Pacific. Look at it for just a moment. It shows you how you can get into trouble with the very best of intentions, and I am speaking of our opponents in this instance. Five years ago the Communists were threatening Quemoy and Matsu and Formosa, and what happened? What happened was that in that 5-year period we found that we have kept the peace in that area, that the Communists have not moved. Why? Because President Eisenhower stood firm, backed by the Congress, and he refused to draw a line and say, "I will not defend these islands." He said, in effect, "We will not surrender any territory under the threat of a gun." Now, our opponent today wants to change that. He says we're going to change this policy now. We're going to turn over these islands which are the gateway to Formosa to the Communists. Why? Because they are threatening them. But we decided that 5 years ago, and I say, my friends, that if for 5 years we've had a right policy let's keep that policy and not change it by turning over and surrendering to the Communists in that area or any area in the world today. Why do I urge that? I urge that because I know that when you deal with a dictator the moment that you surrender something at the point of a gun it doesn't satisfy him. It doesn't bring peace. It increases the risk of war. That's why I called upon my opponent, and I call upon him again today, in the interest of America, in the interest of peace, to join with a majority of his own party as they voted in 1955, join with Senator Lausche in his statement of yesterday, join with Mr. Truman in what he said in 1958, join with President Eisenhower, and say to the Communists, "We are going to stand united as a nation," because otherwise what is going to happen? We're going to find that if we appear to be disunited that we are inviting the very aggression that we don't want. So, if America wants peace, the way to peace is not through weakness. It's not through surrender, but it's through firmness - and it's firmness that we understand and that we will continue. And now the last point that I make is one that is particularly appropriate in this home district of mine. I've been speaking about our military strength and economic strength and also of our diplomatic firmness, but let me tell you that the real strength of America that will be decisive is not this - that is important - but it is here in what you represent. The real strength of America is in its ideals. It's in the homes, in the churches, in the schools of America. What do I mean? There's a great battle going on, a battle that's going to be decided in this last half of the 20th century. Whoever is the next President has got to lead the United States and the free world in that battle. What's going to count? What we believe in is going to count - our ideals, our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of all men, our belief in the rights of all men, in equality of opportunity, our belief that every nation has a right to be independent, that all people have a right to be free. You say, "These things, Mr. Nixon How can they stand up against Communist might and strength?" And the answer is that the militarists and the tyrannists throughout history have underestimated moral and spiritual strength. So, I say to you: Strengthen the moral fiber of this community. Strengthen the moral fiber of our young people. Let them realize what a privilege it is to live in America. Let them realize what it means to live in a country which is free, in which we can have faith, faith in our God, in our country, in the ideals which made us great - and, as you do that, then the next President of the United States can lead a united people and we can stand not simply for holding the line for freedom, but for extending freedom, and extending it without war, extending it because of the very power of our moral and spiritual strength. And in my home district this is my plea to you. I ask you - this is the part that you can play. Make America strong at home, so that we, who represent America abroad, can point with pride and say, "Here is a strong nation; here is a people with faith; here are people who are not talking about America being second rate," but know she's first rate and are going to continue her first in everything in the world. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Barry. After that introduction, there really isn't anything I can add, because the sale, I hope, has already been made. But certainly I want you to know that Pat and I deeply appreciate the opportunity to attend this breakfast prior to the meeting that I understand will still be held outside in a little California dew this morning. I understand, too, that those who are here will probably have the opportunity to leave to hear the speech which is going to be delivered there. So I will not belabor you with some of the issues that I want to discuss, and will be discussing a little later. But because this is a special occasion, because this is a group of the people who have made such a great contribution to our party here in Arizona, I wanted to say some things to you that I do not plan to discuss in the meeting outside where I will primarily dwell on some of the issues of the campaign. First of all, I want to give you an idea about the reason I always like to appear before groups of this type whenever the time permits. I say when the time permits because I find that when you re a presidential candidate, you never have time to do all the meetings that you want. For example, in the hotel today there are two or three conventions going on - the oral surgery and the veterinarians and three or four others - and we're lucky we ever got here, I can assure you. But people often say to me, "Mr. Nixon, with all the requests you have, why do you talk to people who are already for you?" And certainly everybody in this room is going to vote the Republican ticket. All of you are the people who make the party go, as Barry said, and he told me as we came in - he described you very eloquently; I won't repeat what he said, but he did it with very great eloquence and affection, and certainly I know this is the heart of the Republican Party here. Well, I'll tell you why, at every opportunity I have, I like to come before a group of the key partyworkers,be they precinct workers or chairmen or officials, those who are carrying the load in a campaign, it's because in political Campaigning and political affairs and in the efforts to get the votes that we don't have we sometimes overlook those who have to assure the ones that we do have. We also often forget that as far as a presidential election is concerned, and its aftermath, that it's going to be tremendously important not only to win this election at the national level, which we're hoping to do, but also to elect as many Congressmen and Senators as we can, and also to build the Republican Party after this election and build it into a party which we know we can do if we work, and that's why I want all of you to know that I pledge to you that I shall talk to the Republican Party all over the Nation, whenever the opportunity presents itself. I like to talk to groups like this because we have to strengthen our party. We have to strengthen it every place. Now, here in Arizona you did a very remarkable thing in 1958. I traveled the country in 1958. It was not a very pleasant job, I can assure you, because when the campaign goes against you and when you go into State after State where the party organization is on its back, when you go into State after State where you know you're going to lose, and yet you have to stand up there and go down the line for the candidates and the organization and the like, it certainly is not the most easy job that I have undertaken, and particularly when I was not a candidate myself. I think, however, there was a responsibility, and there is always a responsibility, on the nationally elected officials of the party to attempt to help out the party whenever we can, and that's true of bad times as well as good times. But let's get to Arizona. In 1958 you did a remarkable thing. You were one of those very few States that ran against the trend. You ran against it so effectively that you surprised the whole Nation, and the reason you did it was be cause of you people. You did it. No question about it; you people. Oh, your candidates helped a little but they couldn't have done it without you. And certainly there is no State in the Nation that has a better organization from a Republican standpoint; there's no State in which we have a better hard-hitting group of candidates than we have right here in this State, and I'm proud to be here - I'm proud to be here again with Paul Fannin and John Rhodes. I support every one of the candidates here - a comment I will make as well throughout the Nation. I'm glad, too, that Barry isn't running here in Arizona this year because we need him. We need him in other States, and I want to say what I said at the airport last night. There isn't any man in our party who is making more speeches, who is fighting harder for our cause than Barry Goldwater of Arizona and we thank you for it. Maybe it's too bad you aren't running, you're so popular, Barry. But getting to the other point. You know people sometimes have come to me in the course of this campaign. They say "Mr. Nixon" or "Dick" or whatever they may be calling me at the moment, and they say "Why is it in every State you go into" - and this is true - "and in every meeting in which you participate, you always mention the local candidates?" And I do. Governor, Congressmen, Senators, if they're running, assemblymen, State legislators, State senators, if they're running. "Why is it that you do that?" Particularly they say "Why do you do that where in many of these States everything indicates they are going to run behind you? Don't you realize we're trying to win this national election, and isn't it going to hurt to mention these fellows and these women in some cases who may not have the strength that you have?" And I want to tell you why. Because I believe in party responsibility; because I believe that it is not only necessary to elect a Republican President. It's also necessary to build this party from top to bottom, and we cannot do it unless we all stand together right up and down the line. And so that's why I do that. Frankly, if the time ever comes when I'm not proud of my party and proud of the candidates I'm running with, then, of course, the thing for me to do is to get out of the party. So I can only say, since I don't intend that I'm going to continue to support every Republican candidate in this State and also in the Nation, and do it proudly because we simply have to develop a spirit. A spirit which you already have in this State. A spirit which also can be developed in other States as well, a spirit that will rebuild our strength, and it is coming back. Now, the last thing I would say is "This campaign has brought out the biggest crowds of any I have ever participated in." I think it's probably the record. Crowds from the standpoint of any campaign, including the ones in 1952 and 1956, are enthusiastic. People believe there is a cause worth fighting for and working for, and voting for, and we can win this election. I would like to point this out, however. I have never seen an election campaign in which the odds were closer. People say, "How is it in California?" and I would say you could call it 50-50, 51-49, either way. Nobody would know. That same thing would apply to virtually every State in this Union. In a close election what will be decisive - and this brings me back to why I am here and why I welcome the opportunity to talk to a group like this - in a close election what is always decisive is the work that is done in the last 3 weeks. What is always decisive is the work that is done in getting that extra vote per precinct, which may make the difference. Barry Goldwater and I know what that problem is. We were both up in North Dakota. I went up there and campaigned pretty hard with Pat, and we had tremendous crowds and great enthusiasm. Everybody said, "Well this is it. We're going to win." But the workers didn't get out as they should in a few key cities. Barry campaigned it all over, too; everybody was there. Nelson Rockefeller was there. We threw everything into that in the way of speakers. Everything was in that campaign in the way of radio and television and billboards and everything. No lack of money. No lack of advertising. No lack of speakers from the outside. Yet we lost. You know how much we lost by - one-half vote per precinct. One-half vote per precinct would have meant that for the next 6 years instead of having a Senator who will vote down the line with the far left of the Democrats in the Senate, we would have had a fine Republican Governor, John Davis, as Senator. That is what could have happened. And so I say to all you, and I say this as a message to all the precinct workers and those who lead them throughout this country. Remember the speeches of a candidate are important, of course. They have to inspire, if they can, and the speeches made by others, like Barry Goldwater, are important, and all of these things that are purchased by money, the public relations activities for example, the television and the radio and the billboards and the handouts and the direct mail, et cetera. All of these things are important, but in the clinch, in a close election, the most important person in the campaign is not the candidate for President or the candidate for Governor or the candidate for the House or the candidate for the Senate. The most important person in the world is an individual who came up to me at the airport last night among the VIPS and he said "I'm just a precinct worker." He or she is the most important person. You tell them that, because in a close election they'll win it; so let's be sure, as we go into this stretch, we step up our campaign, that we step it up and also that we don't do it just with the hip hip hooray of a meeting, but that we recognize it's going to be won right down there, won or lost in the battleground. They know it. They're going to pour in, without any question, hundreds of thousands of paid workers, in many instances. I say hundreds of thousands. That may be an exaggeration. There certainly will be thousands of paid workers in some of the key industrial States. They will be poured into this campaign. We've got to combat them with volunteers, because that's all we have, but a good volunteer worker can always beat a paid worker, if he works, and so I say let's outwork them and outfight them in these last 3 weeks and we'll win Arizona and the Nation. Thank you.
What is, first, the major consideration that you, as voters in this State, in the Nation, should have in mind as you elect the next President? I would say this: That, above all, we must remember that in electing a President of the United States we're not just electing a man to lead this country. We're electing a man who must lead the whole free world, and the decision that is made is so vital to America and to the free world that the man elected must be the best man that the two parties can produce. What am I trying to say? I am saying here that in this election it isn't enough to vote as your grandfather did or as your father did. It isn't enough simply to say, "Well, this is my party label and I'm going to vote that way, because the other fellow has the same label." You've got to look beneath the labels. It isn't enough to vote as somebody else tells you, someone who is the head of an organization to which you belong. This is a time when every free, individual American citizen should vote not according simply to party labels or anything else. But he should vote for what is best for America - and that is the basis that I present the case to you today. Now, what does America need? What is the main index or test of leadership that you should apply to whoever is going to be the next President of the United States? Well, of course, there are a tremendous number of issues on which the candidates differ, but the most important issue is the issue of the survival of this Nation and of the cause of freedom throughout the world. You know, we can have the finest programs that we can possibly imagine in health and education and welfare and highways, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy them. So, therefore, the major test to which you must submit me and my opponent and my running mate and his running mate is this: What two men are best qualified, by experience and by judgment and background and by program, to keep the peace and keep it without surrender for America and the world? Now, in speaking to that point, I want to say, first of all, that in comparing qualifications it would not be appropriate for me to compare my own with those of my opponent. That's for you to judge. But I can say something about my running mate, and I would say that no man in the world today has had more experience - and I don't think anybody could have done a better job - than our candidate for Vice President in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom at the United Nations, Henry Cabot Lodge. We will work together, work together in the cause of peace and freedom, in strengthening the instruments of peace and freedom. Now, what can you expect from us? Well, first of all, we are men who know those who oppose peace and those who fight freedom throughout the world. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have both sat across the conference table from him. I think we know how he reacts. I think we know what America must do if we are to accomplish our goals and if we are to deny him his goals; and his goals, of course, are the goals that all Americans must oppose, because they are the goals of a Communist world, domination of the world by communism by any means, if necessary; without war, if possible. This is the current Communist goal. And, so, we know this man, and knowing him you can expect certain things from us. Since you can look at our records and see how we have dealt with him, you know what you will get in the future if we are elected. So, you have a known quantity here - men who know Mr. Khrushchev, men who have dealt with him in the past, men who have set a standard of conduct - and we're going to continue the same, strong, firm leadership in the future that we have used with Mr. Khrushchev in the past.  Now, how else must you judge us? Well, you've got to judge us by our record. We are part of the record of this administration in the field of foreign policy. As you know, for 7½ years we sat in the Cabinet, the Security Council. We've advised with the President on the great decisions on Lebanon, Quemoy, and Matsu, and, therefore, we are responsible, as is the President responsible.  Now, how about that record? You've heard a lot about it - it's bad - and you're going to hear a lot more in the next 3 weeks - how America has been running down, how we're second-rate in education, and second-rate in this area and that area, how our prestige is crumbling around the world; people don't like us any more - and you've heard also of all of the failures of America in the field of foreign policy. In fact, it was summed up by my opponent when he said, "This has been a period of retreat and defeat and we've got to get America going again."  Just let me say this: They have a right to say everything they want, if they believe it, provided they don't distort the record, but whenever they say anything that is wrong, we have got a responsibility to correct it - and one thing that certainly can be said here today is that all the criticism in the world is not going to obscure the truth that the American people know, and the truth is - the truth is - that they know that under the leadership of this administration we got the United States out of one war; we've kept her out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today.  Now, of course, I realize there are those who say, "But, Mr. Nixon, that's the past. What about the present? What about all these charges about American prestige? What about the charge the other day that Senator Kennedy made in upper New York State?" And I'll quote him exactly. He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing." He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing."  Let me tell you something. If he would just stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what the President of the United States has been doing. Now, I must admit something he hasn't been doing is what Senator Kennedy wanted him to do. He didn't apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev for attempting to defend the security of the United States. And I also have to admit something else he hasn't been doing that Mr. Khrushchev has been doing either. He hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations. But he has been standing firmly for the cause of peace and freedom. He worked with the United Nations, for example, to save the independence of the Congo, rather than working against it, as Khrushchev did, to destroy the independence of that country and make it a satellite of the Soviet Union. This is the kind of leadership we've been having, and it's only this kind of firm leadership that will win the struggle for peace and freedom in the future. So, again I say: Look to our record. Look to our principles. Look to our program. What are the principles of peace? There are several in dealing with the men who threaten the peace. First, we must recognize that Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagues are men who do not react like the men of the free world, and that's the reason we've gotten into trouble in the past. We've had well-intentioned, naive people who said, "Express regrets or apologize and maybe he'll like us better. Do this or that or the other thing, because he'll react this way or that way." We must remember - and I sat across from him, and I know him - he is a ruthless, fanatical man, with one aim only, and that's to destroy the things we believe in. He will follow no rules of the game, and, therefore, we have to be just as tough, not belligerent, but just as tough, just as firm in the right as he is in the wrong. That is what America needs to be. So, I name to you three elements of strength. These are the principles of peace, if we want peace in the world. One: We must be the strongest nation in the world. Are we? And the answer is: Absolutely, we're the strongest nation in the world, and Mr. Khrushchev knows it. And those who suggest that we might not be and who say, if America were stronger, this or that or the other thing would happen, I would say why hasn't Mr. Khrushchev reacted then? Why is it that every time he comes up to the point of bullying, he stops short of armed force? Because he knows America is strong. What must we be in the future? We cannot rest on what we've got, because, good as it is, the whole technological revolution is occurring today. The Communists are stepping up their activities, and America - and I want to insist on this, and we must insist on it - must continue to increase its strength so that, regardless of what Mr. Khrushchev has or the Communists have, we will always have an ultimate margin which will discourage him from ever launching an attack. Now, there is a second point that we need. We need firm diplomacy. How have we been able to keep the peace without surrender? Let me give you an example. There's been a lot of discussion of this Quemoy-Matsu incident on the television the other day. It's a little hard to understand unless you get it in simple terms. Let's look at what really happened. Five years ago there was a debate in the Senate. A resolution was passed giving the President of the United States the power to use the Armed Forces to stop aggression in the Far East and the Formosa Straits aimed at our ally, the Republic of China. During the course of the debate on that resolution, a little group of Senators, well intentioned, but wrong and naive, put up an amendment, in which they said, "Well, we want the President to defend our ally, Formosa, but we want to draw a line and rule out two islands that are free at the present time, but that we don't think we ought to try to defend." Now, under the circumstances, what happened? The Senate rejected it. A majority of the Democrats, all of the Republicans, as I recall, voted against that amendment, and they said, "No, we're not going to tie the President's hands. We are not going to surrender in advance to the Communists a bit of free territory. We're going to give to the President the right to determine how to use the Armed Forces." And why did they do that? Because the Communists had said over and over again that their objective was not those two little islands that this amendment would give to them, but their objective was Formosa, and we know, of course, the world as well. So, the amendment was rejected, and for 5 years the policy has worked because the Communists have not launched the all-out offensive either at the islands of Quemoy and Matsu or at Formosa. And now today a Presidential candidate tries to change the policy. He says: "No. We made a mistake. Five years we haven't had war there. Five years the President has stood firm, but now we're going to change. We will surrender these two islands. We will get our ally to turn them over." And the reason? Well, he says, one, they are indefensible, and you can say the same thing about Berlin, I assumed, but we're not going to surrender them. Second, he also indicates: "But maybe if we do that we can avoid war." But are we ever going to learn in this country - and certainly I think Americans have learned it - that when you deal with a dictator that certainly turning over territory does not satisfy him. It does not bring peace. It is the very thing that whets his appetite, that incites him and leads to war, and we're not going to do it again. We left it in 1953. And, so, again today I call upon Senator Kennedy, in the interest of the Nation, to depart from this doctrine that he has been espousing, to join again with the President of the United States, to join with a majority of the Senators in his own party, to join with Senator Lausche, for example, who departed from his position 2 days ago, and say the President of the United States will continue to have the strength and the right to defend this country and to determine if an attack is made whether that attack must be met by the Armed Forces of the United States and - the other side of the coin - that the United States is not going to make the mistake of attempting to satisfy a dictator by turning over free territory to him at the point of a gun. This is what America must do. Now, another point that I should make: we also, in addition to our diplomatic firmness and our military strength, have got to see to it that the American economy moves forward. It's been moving, may I say, but is going to move more - and I'll tell you why it has to move. I remember Mr. Khrushchev when I was in Moscow said to me: "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now economically, but we're going to catch you. We're moving faster than you are," he said, "and we're going to catch you, and when we go by you I'm going to wave and then I'm going to say, 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or otherwise you are going to fall hopelessly behind in this great economic race for survival.'" Let me tell you the answer. He isn't going to catch us in 7 years, as he indicated, or 70 years, provided Americans stay true to the principles that have made us the greatest country in the world economically. Now, here we have a very great gulf between my opponent and that wing of his party which I call the Galbraith-Schlesinger-Bowles wing and which does not represent the thinking of millions of Democrats in this country, may I say. We have a great gulf of difference of approach. How does America move? What is the test of progress in America? Our opponent says over and over again: "America has been standing still economically, and it's time to get moving again." Well, my friends, anybody who says America has been standing still for the past 7½ years - he hasn't been traveling in America. He's been traveling in some other country, believe me. He just ought to come to Phoenix and see what's happened here in the last 7 years. You see, the trouble is with those who are obsessed only by what Government does is that they say you have progress only when the Government does something; but, my friends, the test of progress in America is not what the Government does, but what 180 million free Americans are encouraged to do - and that is why we have been progressive. Government has responsibilities, which I have outlined on many, many occasions, but the difference in approach is this: They say, whenever there's a problem, "We start with the Federal Government, a huge program; we weaken the responsibilities of the States; we weaken the responsibilities of the individuals. In other words, we start with the Federal Government, and we work down to the people." And we say the way to progress in America is not that way, that the way to progress is not to start from the Federal Government and work down, but to start with the American people and work up to the Federal Government - that that is the way to get the progress that we want. I could spell it out, but I can summarize it in a word. It is another example. Particularly I say this for these young people here. Sometimes young people will come up to me and they will say, "But, Mr. Nixon, you say your programs and your Republican platform and the things you stand for will produce more progress in schools and housing and all these things we want than theirs, but how can you say that? How can you say you are more for progress than they are when, after all, they're going to spend more?" And that's right. There are. I concede it. About $10 billion a year more. But, remember, it isn't my money and it isn't Jack's money they are going to be spending, but yours. That's the point that everybody has to bear in mind as we consider this element of progress. My point is this: We must always remember that it's the responsibility of a President of the United States to remember that every time a dollar is spent in Washington it comes from the people. Every time he adopts a policy which inflates our currency it comes from the people and higher prices at the grocery store and the gas station and every place along the line, and I want to say to you I will not indulge in the practice of going around the country attempting to buy the peoples' votes with their own money. I will go around the country and I will stand for programs that will produce progress, but I will always remember that whenever we can leave to the people their own money that that's better than sending it down to Washington to have a bunch of bureaucrats spend it for them. That's the difference in our approach. My time is up. I have only one last point to add. I have talked about military and economic strength and diplomatic firmness, all of which are principles of peace in this era. If we have them, we will keep the peace. Now, let me tell you something. It will not be easy. We're going to have periods of difficulty. The Communists are going to stir up trouble every time they can around the world, but that doesn't mean that our policies are wrong. It may only mean that they are working and that they are attempting, the Communists, to operate against them. But there's one point that we must never forget; America must not rest her case in this great struggle simply on our military might and on the wealth and productivity of our economy. That's all the Communists offer, but we stand for more than that. We stand for ideals, ideals that will be decisive in this struggle in this next quarter of a century, ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago - and they still live in the minds of the people everywhere - that are the hope of the world, and it's these ideals - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of men; our belief that the rights of men to be free and of nations to be independent belong to all men throughout the world, that America came into the world to preserve them not only for herself, but to extend them to all - these beliefs must come from you. They must come from the people, from the hearts, from the individual, from the homes, from the churches, from the schools of America; and if you strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of this country, if we instill in our young people a burning patriotism, a love of country and an understanding of what America really stands for, then the next President and his successor will be able to lead the forces of peace and freedom to victory without war. And, so, let us join together in this struggle and we shall win, because we are on the right side. Thank you.
 The great mission of our time is to defend and strengthen freedom, and to build a dependable and just peace. The effect of Senator Kennedy's statements on Quemoy and Matsu and Formosa has been to present to the enemies of freedom in the world a picture of an America divided on this great issue. We must be united because it is certain that the Communists respect only strength, firmness, and unity on the part of the free world and on the part of America above all. The error Senator Kennedy makes is to advocate a change in America's policy of firmness in spite of the fact it is a policy which has worked time and again these past 8 years. He publicly advocates the drawing of a line behind where it is today - of surrendering at the point of a gun, free territory to the Communists. The identical approach was overwhelmingly rejected 5 years ago by the majority of both the Democrats and the Republicans in the U.S. Senate. If Senator Kennedy persists in this position - one that I am convinced is naive and, in fact, dangerously irresponsible - the result can only be to encourage the Chinese Communists to step up their attacks. Every day that he persists in this frightening foolishness - every day that he continues to picture an uncertain and divided America - he increases the risk of war. Therefore, I call upon him again to surrender his own position rather than America's position - to concede his error rather than concede bits of freedom to tyranny - to surrender to the overwhelming view of the American people in favor of firmness instead of surrendering free territory, free people, and freedom from war. Let us restore, beyond all doubt, the wise course America has followed so successfully these past 8 years. Therefore, I call upon him to surrender his position rather than surrender free world territory. If he does so, he will be joining with the great majority of Americans of whatever political faith who support President Eisenhower's wise position on this all-important matter.
Now, tonight there are many subjects which I could well discuss before this great audience. Certainly, however, there is one in view of the place in which I speak, one in view of the circumstances of this meeting which must stand out above all the rest. We know that Abraham Lincoln is the symbol of freedom throughout the world not just for America, but throughout the world. I know this. I know the leaders of the newly independent countries of Asia and Africa consider Lincoln, as we consider him, as a man who belonged not just to America, but to the ages and to the whole world. And, so, speaking here in Springfield, certainly the theme of any speech during this campaign should be the one that he left with America a hundred years ago, and that theme has been restated over and over again. The issue in his time was whether a nation could be half slave and half free. The issue today is freedom for all the world. I say "freedom for all the world" because certainly if we are to keep our own freedom it is not enough to be selfish about it. It is not enough simply to defend it against communism. It is not enough just to hold the line, but without war, with our moral strength and our power. We must extend freedom to people throughout the world - and that is the great theme of our campaign in this year, 1960. I say to you tonight that the greatest test you must put both of the candidates for the Presidency as well as their colleagues for the Vice-Presidency to is that one. Which of the two teams is better qualified, by experience, by judgment and by background, not only to keep the peace, but to keep the peace without surrender of principle or territory in the world, not only to keep freedom for America, but to develop policies that will extend freedom to all peoples throughout the world. This is America's mission. This will be the great responsibility of the next President, and these are the tests to which you must put us all, and in that connection I will say again what I have said over and over again in this campaign: Because the issue is so important, because the man who is elected President will be not only President of this United States, but will also have these great responsibilities to which I refer, it is essential that the test not simply be the party label, that the test not simply be how did your grandfather or your father vote; that the test not simply be how somebody else told you to vote; the test must be from deep within yourself. You appraise the men. You look at our records. You look at our backgrounds, and you make the decision that America needs because America needs the best judgment of all of its people in this critical period - and it is this that I ask, and nothing less, from our people as you decide this election campaign. And what are the things that should judge you? What are the things that should guide you? If I might name them, I would say, first of all, you must look at the records, the records of our candidates on both sides. I refer first to our own record. It is one which my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I have helped to make. For 7½ years we have sat in the National Security Council, in the Cabinet; we have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions of this administration in the field of foreign policy, on Quemoy and Matsu, on Lebanon, on others - and, therefore, you know, from reading our record, the kind of men we are. You know what you can expect from us. Now, I know that there are those who don't think much of this record - and that's their right to say, if they believe it - but I say whenever they misrepresent the record it's my responsihility to "nail" them - and I'm going to every time. As far as that record is concerned, I would only suggest this: I noted a few days ago that Mr. Kennedy equated himself apparently to Mr. Truman. He said this was like 1948 when Mr. Truman was running for the Presidency. Well, it apparently is like 1948 from his standpoint, from what he has been saying and the way he has been misrepresenting the facts, but, believe me, he's going to be "nailed" as Mr. Truman was not "nailed" in 1948. I can assure you of that. What about the record, the record in the field of foreign policy? Well, my friends, you know what it is. You remember what it was in 1953 - America mired down in a war; America mired down in a war that we were not allowed to win; America mired down in a war that was the result of policies which were naive in dealing with the greatest threat to peace and freedom the world has ever seen - the Communist threat. So, what has happened in these last 8 years? Oh, yes, many things of which people are critical, but nothing which can obscure the truth for which the American people will be eternally grateful - that under President Eisenhower's leadership we ended that war; we have avoided other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. Of course, I know that there are those who suggest that, "Well, that's the past, and looking at the present and the future we certainly must have a different standard, that the American prestige is shot now that we're becoming second rate in everything, science and education, our economy, everything down the line," and all that I can say is this with regard to that: Certainly where there are weaknesses in our country we should point them out in order to correct them, but it isn't necessary to tear America down in order to build her up - and let's stand for America throughout the world. An example of a kind of irresponsibility and loose talk that I don't like and I don't think Americans like was a statement by Senator Kennedy the other day in New York to this effect. I will quote it exactly - incidentally, without notes. Incidentally, for your information, I sent a message to my negotiators for our next debate indicating that, while the rule in the first three debates was that neither of us was to use notes, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Kennedy can have notes, but I'll come without them in the next debate - and we'll have it out in that way. Then again what was it that he said? Well, he said: "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." All that I can say in answer to him is that if he'd stop talking a little while and start reading he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing.  No, he isn't doing some of the things that Senator Kennedy has suggested. He isn't apologizing or expressing regrets for defending the security of the United States, for example, and also he isn't doing what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. He isn't making a fool of himself at the United Nations, and we can be thankful for that. But President Eisenhower is standing for the cause of peace and freedom, as he has and he will for the balance of his term, standing for it with dignity, never getting down to the level of the insulters and the crude people on the other side, standing with it in firmness, standing with it, I am sure, in a way that all Americans will appreciate. These are the things that we know, and certainly, as we look to this record, it gives us some gnidelines for the future. What else do you know about my colleague and I? Well, we know Mr. Khrushchev. We both have sat opposite him at the conference table. We both have had the opportunity to debate with him. We have had the opportunity also to test ourselves against him, and the American people know what we will do when we're in the ring with him. You're not buying an uncertain quantity, and we believe the American people want to know what they're going to get in these next 4 years - and you know with us what you're going to get. Now, I noticed, for example, that Senator Kennedy was speaking in a very ridiculing way of the so-called debating with Mr. Khrushchev that I was doing while I was in Moscow. I'm going to tell you what happened and let you judge. I was there as a guest of the Soviet Union. I was there not for the purpose of starting an argument, but I was there to represent the President and the American people, I was hoping, at their best, and then there at the American exposition, the man who was our host walked up, in front of the radio, in front of the television cameras, also in front of the Russian workmen who were there, and he tried to insult our country. He tried to run us down. He indicated that he was stronger than we were. He indicated, in effect, that he could push us around. He had gotten away with this with other leaders of the free world who had been there, and I, as far as I was concerned, did these things. I did not lose my temper. I did not get down to his level. But I stood up for the United States of America, and I think that's what all people wanted me to do. Oh, it would have been much easier to take it. It would have been much easier to apologize, but I can tell you that in the world today, we have to debate these great issues, and at every opportunity we must be prepared to, because this issue, as I will be saying in a few moments, will be decided primarily in the minds of men and in their hearts, and, therefore, we must, when our Nation comes under attack, stand up and speak up for America. I have in the past, and I will continue to in the future, I assure you, because I know the American people want me to do that. Now, knowing Mr. Khrushchev, what do we say, my colleague and I, that America must do to keep the peace, keep it without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? There are these things: One: Because this is a man who respects strength, who uses it brutally, it is essential that the United States be the strongest nation in the world militarily. What is the situation today? We are the strongest nation in the world. What will be the situation in our administration? We will continue to be. We're not going to rest on our present strength. We're never going to be satisfied with it. As long as we have this threat, we're going to do everything that is necessary to see that America has an absolute advantage so that Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else will never dare to start anything in the world. This is the way we keep the peace with our strength. There is a second element of strength which I wish to refer to. You can be the strongest nation in the world militarily, and it will mean nothing unless you have the diplomatic firmness that goes along with it, because you can be strong militarily and lose at the conference table everything that you might have gained through the position of military strength which you have built up. And, looking at the record, I think we know what America must do at the conference table. First, we must do what we have done in the past. We must be firm on principle, standing for the right. We must never be belligerent, and that means never heating up the world atmosphere with a war of words, but standing for the right and standing for principle, recognizing that when you deal with the Communists, you are not dealing with men who follow the rules of the game of the free world. They are men who react altogether differently. They are men who have as their fanatical and ruthless design, conquering the world, and, therefore, they will break all the rules, and under those circumstances, the only langnage which they understand and which will keep them from starting anything is to be firm. Now, having said that, may I say that one example of firmness that has worked has been the one that has been discussed in the papers in the past few days. You heard Senator Kennedy and me debate it a bit the other day, this argument about the Formosa Straits and Quemoy and Matsu. Five years ago that decision was made, by an overwhelming vote of the Senate of the United States. By resolution, the President of the United States was given the power to defend our ally, Formosa, and to defend it against any attack by the Chinese Communists, and in his discretion to determine whether an attack on the free islands which belonged to the Chinese Nationalists, whether such an attack was an absolute, actual attack on Formosa, itself. An attempt was made during the course of the debate, an attempt made by well-intentioned men, but men who don't understand the Communist tactics, as they prove by this, and only 12 Senators, including Senator Kennedy, voted to deny to the President the right to move, in effect, until they had actually set foot on Formosa one way or another. In fact, what they said was: "We will draw a line. We'll draw a line leaving out these islands that are now free, because we don't want to get into a war over those islands." And what happened? A majority of the Democrats, a majority of the Republicans, said: "No, you 12 people are wrong. We believe the President of the United States, if he's going to stop an aggression there, must have the power that this resolution would give, and we believe the lesson of history shows that once you start surrendering territory to a dictator, it never satisfies him. It only encourages him to ask for more." And what happened? What happened? For 5 years, my friends, we find that it has stopped Communist aggression in that area. For 5 years it has avoided war. And, so, now today Senator Kennedy opens it up again. He says, "We'll change the policy again. We should deny to the President of the United States what to do in these islands, and, as a matter of fact, we will force our Nationalist allies to turn them over to the Communists." And his arguments are hard to follow, but they go something like this: "If we turn these over, we won't get into a war; but if we keep them, or allow the Nationalists to keep them free, we may go into a war." Well, my friends, the lesson of history again is that is not the way to peace, but it is the way to war. We learned it with Hitler. You remember - step after step - Danzig and the Sudetenland, and all the rest, and people said "this is the last, this is the last; we won't have to fight," but every time we gave him a little more, he wanted more, until finally he asked for so much that the whole world had to stand up in one of the worst wars in history. And I say again we saw it in Korea. Here was Dean Acheson, certainly not wanting a war, and so indicating we wouldn't defend Korea, because we wouldn't want to get into a war over Korea. And what happened? The Communists marched in, and we had to go in to stop them and 30,000 American boys are dead today because of diplomatic foolishness of that type. I say the American people have learned their lesson. We're not going to encourage a dictator to start something by surrendering territory to him at the point of a gun. And that's why again I call upon Senator Kennedy tonight to drop this position in the interest of the country. It's a naive position. It's dangerously irresponsible, and the only result of it will be to encourage the Chinese Communists to step up their attack. Every day that he persists in this frightening foolishness, every day that he continues to picture America as uncertain and divided, he increases the risk of an attack, the risk of war, and, therefore, I call upon him again tonight to surrender his own foolish position rather than to surrender America's position. I call upon him to concede his error rather than concede bits of freedom to tyranny. I call upon him to surrender to what I believe is the overwhelming view of the American people in favor of firmness instead of surrendering free territory, free people, and freedom from war. This is what we need if we're going to have the peace and freedom that we all want in the world. Because, you see, my friends, this is the policy that has succeeded, aud this is the policy that has kept the peace without surrender, and this is not a time to change that policy. It's the time to continue it. And now, if I could go on to just one other point. I have spoken of our diplomatic firmness. I have spoken also of our military strength. We need, in addition to that, I would say, a point that I have emphasized in my previous trips to Illinois: that America must keep its economy strong and that the way that we can, the way that we can still move ahead and continue to move ahead of the Soviet Union, is to remain true to the principles that made America great, the princaples of the American frontier, the pioneer spirit; and, in that connection, just let me say this on this particular occasion. We hear a lot about new frontiers these days, and there are great new frontiers, but the way to cross them is not through an old jalopy that we left behind in 1953, the Truman policies of 1953. The way to cross them is to stimulate the creative energies of 180 million free Americans, the pioneer spirit that has always been responsible for America's growth and for its power in the past. And now again returning to my last point: I mentioned a moment ago, in addition to our military strength and our economic strength and our diplomatic firmness, we needed another kind of strength that was more decisive than all these. This was the strength that Lincoln had, and it is here that I would like to refer to something that I think all of you in this great land of Lincoln will particularly appreciate. I am often asked: "Isn't this a time for great leadership for the United States?" And the answer is "Yes." And then I'm asked: "Are you the man who can be the great leader of this century?" And I cannot say that. I cannot say that for this reason. I cannot say it because that is for you to determine. That is for the people to determine. Let me tell you something about greatness. Greatness is not something where a President is concerned. It is not something which is the result of his ambition. It is not something that is written on a campaign poster. Greatness is something that a President can have only if he represents, at its best, the truest ideals, the greatest hopes, the finest spirit of the people. And I say to you tonight that whoever is President in this period of the sixties will be great only to the extent that the American people are great and that he represents their inner thoughts and their best ideals, and that is why I call upon this great audience - you. You must see that America is great, and that means great in heart and great in soul, and great in spirit. Remember, the decisive factor in this struggle will not be just our military strength and economic strength. It will be our ideals, ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago, ideals that Lincoln stood for 100 years ago, ideals that still are the hope of the world. What are they? Our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of every man, woman, and child on this earth; our belief that the rights of men to freedom, to equality of opportunity, are rights that come from God and that cannot be taken away by men; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent; that all people have a right to be free, and our belief that these great ideals belong not just to ourselves, but that they belong to all mankind, and that it is America's destiny as a nation to extend them, not by conquest, not by war, but by the power of our example, by the power of our leadership, by the power of our moral and spiritual strength.  And, so, to this great audience in Illinois, I say: This can be a period of greatness for America, but it will be a period of greatness for America only to the extent that the churches and the homes and the schools of America develop within our people the idealism, the flaming patriotism that America needs to win the struggle of peace and freedom, and win it without war. We will win, because we're on the right side.  Thank you.
There are so many things I would like to talk to you about, but as we move across the Nation - we were in Phoenix this morning; we are at Tulsa today, at this time; we will be in Springfield in a couple of hours for a meeting there, Springfield, Ill.; we end up at Hartford, Conn., tonight at midnight for an airport rally there. So, you can see we have to crowd a lot of stops into a day. But I do know that of all the issues in which you are interested there is one that stands out above all the rest. It is the one which certainly was the great issue of 1952. It is the one that was also the great issue of 1956. Putting it very simply, it is the issue of the survival of the Nation and of the freedom which we cherish. Putting it another way, more important than all the other problems confronting the voters in this election is a decision you will make on November the 8th which answers this question: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency and which of the two candidates for the Vice Presidency can furnish the leadership for America and the free world that will keep the peace for ourselves and our children without surrender throughout this period ahead. We submit our candidacy to you today, to you, to those of you listening on television. We submit it on the basis of our record. We submit it on the basis of our experience. And we submit it on the basis of our program for America. And first the record. Both Cabot Lodge and I have been part of this administration for the past 7½ years and we're proud of that administration and what it has done, and particularly in the field of foreign policy. We think the people of Oklahoma were right when they voted for President Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956. We think they were right not only because he restored dignity and integrity to the top office of this land, but we also believe they were right because he gave them the leadership they wanted in this great issue of foreign policy. Oh, I know there are those who criticize, and they have a responsibility to say those things that are wrong, but we have the responsibility to correct them when they say things that are not right. You've heard all the stories - how we failed here and we failed there, and America has gone to pot here and is second rate there. Just let me say this, my friends: All this election-year chatter cannot obscure the truth that the American people know - and that is they will be eternally grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for getting this Nation out of one war, keeping it out of others, and giving us peace without surrender today. But then people say: "But, Mr. Nixon, that's the past. What about the charges of the present? What about the charges that the U.S. prestige is slipping and that we aren't doing as well as we should and that we're losing the struggle for the world?" Well, I think perhaps those charges were best summed up by my opponent the other day in New York when he made this rather fantastic statement - and I quote him exactly, without notes. Incidentally, I think you should know that I, this morning, instructed my representatives in Washington who are working out the arrangements for the fourth debate that, while the rules in the first three debates were that neither of us should have notes, I am willing to say that the rules will be changed so that either of the candidates may have notes. He can bring them, but I'll still do without them on the fourth debate, as I have in the first three. But what did he say? Well, he said: "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Now, listen, if he'd just stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. I'll have to admit a couple of things. He hasn't been doing some of the things that Mr. Kennedy wanted him to do. He hasn't been apologizing or expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for defending the security of the United States. He also hasn't been doing some of the things Mr. Khrushchev has been doing. He hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations either - and we can be thankful for that. But what President Eisenhower has been doing, and what Cabot Lodge and I will continue to do, is standing firmly for the right, keeping America strong, recognizing that the way to peace is not through weakness militarily, diplomatically or any other way, but through strength, through holding the line. That is the policy that has worked, and it is the only policy that will work with the kind of men that we deal with in the world today. So, I now come to the next point - not only our experience, but our own background - and, in this connection, both my colleague and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communists because we have had an opportunity to sit across the conference table from them. We know how they react. We know that you can't be naive, that you can't assume that they are going to follow the rules of the game that statesmen of the free world would follow. We know, and I can tell you today that I know, that when you're dealing with a man like Mr. Khrushchev in Russia or Mr. Mao Tse-tung, the dictator of Communist China, or any one of the Communist leaders in the world, they have only one objective - and that is to conquer the world. They want to do it without war - at least Mr. Khrushchev, if he can - but they will use any means, if necessary; and, therefore, if America is to retain its freedom - but, more than that, if we're going to keep peace - we must recognize these men for what they are and develop our policies accordingly, and these are the things we must do, and these are the things we will do, if you give us the opportunity on November 8: First, when you've got a man like this, you've got to be sure that you're always stronger than he is militarily. Why? Because he threatens the peace of the world. We don't. With our strength, we would never use it against anybody else. We don't want anything from anybody else, except our own independence, and their right to have it as well. But he does not look at it that way. This man is determined, therefore, to use his strength to conquer the world; and that's why I say to you that America, first, is the strongest nation in the world militarily, despite what you may have heard to the contrary, and, second, we're going to stay that way and we will see to it that the American people support it. Now, let's look at the field of diplomacy, and here we have a grave problem of what the President of the United States does in international conferences, the grave problem of what he does with regard to developing the policies and statements that have been issued by the President and Secretary of State during the period when no war is occurring, as has been the case for the last 7 years; and here again I say that the attitude that we must follow is the one that we have been following; one of firmness for the right, one that is nonbelligerent, because we can always remember that when you know you're right, when you're confident of your strength, you don't lose your dignity by getting down to the level of insult like the man Mr. Khrushchev is. President Eisenhower has set a fine example, and we will continue to follow that example, I can assure you; but, beyond that, it means firmness in the face of tremendous provocation. You had an example of it recently in the debate you heard the other night; the example that the President has followed in dealing with our problems out in the Pacific, and there for 5 years, by congressional resolution support, the President of the United States has had the power, and he has announced it to the world, that we would resist the attempt of the Communists if they were to attempt to attack our ally Formosa, or an area which might be preliminary to an attack. And we also notice that as far as this particular policy is concerned that the Senate 5 years ago rejected the very position that my opponent now advocates, that we draw a line and say: "We will turn over a couple of free islands at the present time; we won't defend those, but we will eventually defend Formosa, itself, because it is an ally." I say the Senate rejected that. A majority of the Senators of his own party voted against that amendment. The majority of Republicans voted against it. The policy has worked. It has avoided war, and I say now is not the time to change it and to surrender that position to the Communists because that is the way that leads to war. It does not lead to peace. Of course, I realize that there are those who will say, "But, Mr. Nixon, wouldn't it be better if we were to indicate that this island or that one or the other one will not be defended? Wouldn't that mean we wouldn't have war?" And my answer is: Look at history. Look at Hitler, for example - Danzig, Sudetenland, Austria, all the rest - and each time it only whetted his appetite and he asked for more and more and more, until eventually we had to tight. Look at Korea: Dean Acheson indicating no, we wouldn't defend Korea. Did it result in peace? No. It resulted in war. When you're confronted with a ruthless dictator whose objective is not a couple of little islands, but the world, you must never make the mistake of surrendering at the point of a gun, because he'll use the gun again, and, therefore, that is why we must not allow this kind of policy. And, so, it is our policy of firmness that has kept the peace and that will keep the peace in the future. It is only a policy of weakness diplomatically that will lose the peace, and I say the American people know and they will support our position and the position of the President, and do not want a change in it, as our opponent has advocated. Now, the next point that I make is one that seems very far from military strength and diplomatic firmness. When I was in the Soviet Union, I remember Mr. Khrushchev speaking to me about the economic race in which we're engaged. He said, "Mr. Nixon, I'll admit that we're behind you now economically, that you produce more than we do, but," he said, "it isn't going to be for long." he says, "Our system is better than yours. We're moving faster than you are, and we're going to catch you, in about 7 years, and," he said, "when we do, we're going to pass you by, and I'm going to wave, and then I'm going to say, 'Come along; follow us, and do as we do, or otherwise, you'll fall hopelessly behind'." And I'll tell you what our answer is to mm, and all the other dictators who say they are going to pass the American economy. They are not going to catch us in 7 or 70 years, if we remain true to the principles that have made America the richest and the best country in the world today. Let me tell you something else I saw when I was in the Soviet Union. I saw there an amazing development. In this country with its tightly controlled government, with everything centered in Moscow, I found that they had to go for decentralization of power in order to get increased production. I saw something else. In this country, where the rule is supposed to be that everybody receives the same pay, that everybody contributes according to his needs, that in order to get production they had to reward incentives, that they had to pay more to those who produced more, and that they were moving in that direction. In other words, what I found in the Soviet Union - that they, in order to even stay in the race, have had to change their Communist policies and had to turn our way. And I say to you, my friends, at a time when we find them having to turn our way, this is no time for us to turn their way. Let's stay with our way and show them our way. Now, what does this mean? This means that we do want progress in this country, and want it to increase, but, my friends, the way to get it is to recognize that the engine of progress in the United States is not the Federal Government, but 180 million free individual Americans inspired by Government. Our opponents say they want progress and they'll produce it, but you know how they say they're going to get it? They're going to set up a huge new Government program in everything, whether its medical care or schools or housing or anything else, turn it over to the Federal Government, and they say this proves they care more for progress, that they will produce more. But, my friends, the record shows they're wrong, because those are the same policies we found under Mr. Truman. They didn't work then. They won't work any better now. We don't want to go back to what we left in 1953. We're going to go forward. In other words, they say the way to progress is what? They say the way to progress is through starting with the Federal Government on every program and working down to the people, and we say the way to progress is just the opposite - start with the people and work up to the Federal Government. And whether it's a school program or a housing program or a farm program, we say that in every area ours will produce progress because it's based on a sound principle. Let's take one example to show the great difference in approach: this matter of oil depletion that was discussed the other night in the debate. Here they indicate the possibility of a change in this allowance, and it must sound awfully popular to a lot of people because, as people have said to me, "Look, there's a lot more people that buy oil and gas than produce it and sell it," and they've also said, "Mr. Nixon, why don't you advocate sticking these rich oilmen? After all, there's just a few of them. Why don't you reduce the depletion allowance? Why worry about them becoming rich?" But, as I said the other night, my friends, what I am concerned about is not making a few oilmen rich, but making America rich, and the way we do it is to inspire the creative activity of people in every area in this country and not to discourage it, as they would, through their tax policies. I would also point out that the consumer has an interest here, an interest because as we increase production, that means that we also have the competition which keeps prices in line, and as we depress production, it means we have a scarcity which will raise prices to the consumer, and the Nation has a stake in this, because if we become involved in any kind of a conflict, America is going to need maximum production in this country, and the only way you can get it is to encourage t hose to go out and explore for it. Here is just one example of a difference in approach. I could give you many others, but to sum it up in a nutshell: In essence, they say, "Give us your money, and we will take care of your problems." And we say, the Federal Government, yes, has some things to do, but whenever a dollar can be spent better by the individual than it can be spent in Washington, we say, leave the money with the people and let them build America. And now one other point. In addition to this economic struggle that I have been talking about and the military struggle, there is another phase of it that is more important and perhaps more decisive - I believe more decisive - and that's the struggle for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. I know that when you think of a man like Khrushchev or Mao Tse-tung, a man who does not believe in God, a man who has no ideals, you think: What in the world will it do for us to talk about the things we believe in in the world? How can ideals stand up against military might and economic productivity? And my answer, my friends, is that the militarists and the materialists throughout history have always underestimated the power of ideals. They have underestimated moral and spiritual strength, and I want to tell you today I know that power because I have seen it around the world. I have often described the experience we had in Poland a year ago, coming into the streets of Warsaw on a Sunday afternoon, no signs along the streets, as there were today in Tulsa, indicating where we were going to go, but a quarter of a million people, learning by word of mouth in this totalitarian country, that we were coming, visitors from the United States, and they were shouting that day at the top of their voices "Neich Zyje America" - "long live America." They were also throwing flowers into our cars, hundreds of bouquets of them, and when the cars were stopped in the middle of the city, I looked into their faces and some were laughing with joy, but grown men and women, hundreds, thousands of them, crying, with tears streaming down their cheeks. Now, why? Not because they thought America was rich, which we are - they knew that - but not because of that alone; not because America was strong militarily - Khrushchev had bragged of that kind of strength and he had been there the week before. No; but because they knew that America stands for something more than military strength, more than economic strength; that we stand for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago, and that means to all the world America and its hope for generations to come. What are those ideals? Our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our believe that the rights that men have to equality of opportunity and freedom; that those rights come from God, that they cannot be taken away from men, by men; our belief that nations have a right to be independent, that people have a right to be free. These things America came into the world to preserve. These things and these ideals America stands for in the world today, and this strength you, the people of America, must give to our Nation because it must come not just from leaders talking about it; it must come from the hearts and the souls of our people, and that means it must be instilled in our young people, in the churches, in the schools, in the homes of America. And, so, I conclude by saying this: I have faith in the outcome of this struggle in which we are engaged. We will keep the peace and we will keep it without surrender. We will extend freedom. We will do it not only because we are strong militarily, which we will be, not only because we will be strong economically; but because America will be strong in its soul, strong in its heart, believing in the right things. And, so, you, I say, keep America strong at home; keep our young people filled with the patriotism and the love of country that we need, and America will win this struggle. We will win it without war. We will realize our great destiny that we came into the world to, of course, preserve, but also to extend. Thank you very much.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you. Thank you very much. Senator Bush, and all of our friends here at this great meeting in Bridgeport, we want to thank you So very much for coming out in the middle of the day and giving us this wonderful welcome on this day as we visit Connecticut. And I want to say, too, that as we arrived in the city we were particularly pleased to be escorted by the bands that came in, on either side here, and by Fairfield University over here. [Applause.] Fine. (Let them up closer. That's fine.) Oh, and I must not forget having been to the University of Bridgeport, welcome to all of you. [Applause.] I want to say, too, that I'm very honored to have been introduced so generously by my friend, Pres Bush, Senator Bush, and also to have the opportunity to be here on the same platform with my two colleagues who are running for Congress, one running at large, Tony Sadlak, let's give him a hand [applause], and then right from this very district, Ab Sibal, how about a hand for him. [Applause.] And now if I might have your attention for just a few minutes, I would like to discuss what I think is the most important issue of this campaign. This is the issue that I find, in traveling already to 46 States, is the one that all people are concerned about above all the rest. You know, I've been to Hawaii, and I've been to Maine. I've been to the North, the East, West, the South, and you'll find the people of this country are quite different in many ways. Where you go to different areas they may have this concern or that one that separates from the rest of the country, but one of the things, the great things about America, is that when it comes to those matters that affect the survival of the Nation, all Americans join together, and I find that above every other issue is this one: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency is best qualified by experience, by judgment, by background to keep the peace, and keep it without surrender for all (could not hear end of sentence because of applause). Now, why is it that that is the issue above every other one that Americans are concerned about? Because it affects the future of our children, because it affects also our own future, and because, as all of you know, we can have the best jobs, the best medical care, the best housing in the world, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. [Applause.] Now the second point that I want to make is this: We often hear the word with regard to how we ought to judge a candidate for the President. Whether we ought to vote the party or the man, and I just want to say here that where America is concerned, that I ask everybody in this audience, Democrats, Republicans, Independents to remember that when we elect a President, it isn't enough just to vote your party, it isn't enough just to vote as somebody else tells you to vote, hut what we have to do is put America first and select the best man, whoever can do the job for America at this particular time. [Applause.] And now, then, I want to turn to that issue because it is one of primary importance, it is one where the American people will make the decision 3 weeks from tomorrow, what are the things that you ought to judge the candidates by in making that decision? The first thing that I think you have to have in mind is this: You want to look at our experience, and as far as our experience is concerned, all of you know that Cabot Lodge and my running mate - my running mate and I, for the last 7½ years have been members of the Eisenhower administration. We have been in the Security Council. We have been in the Cabinet. We have participated in the discussions on foreign policy, and so, therefore, you must judge us by the record. Now there are some who don't think much of that record. They have a right to say what they think, but we also have a right to correct them where they are wrong, and may I just say this: That where it comes to all the criticisms of the record of this administration in the field of foreign policy, no criticism can fool the American people on this point. The American people know that under President Eisenhower's leadership, we got this Nation out of one war, we've kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today, and that's what we want. [Applause.] Now, what of the future There are those who say "America's prestige is falling all over the world; America is now becoming second-rate in its science and its education and its economy; the Soviet Union is going to catch us; America has been standing still and we have got to get going again; we have got to change our foreign policy." Just let me say this in answer to all the critics. I think it was summed up by what my opponent said in New York a few days ago, speaking on foreign policy, he brought this criticism of the administration to a head in this way: I think I remember exactly what he said, and I'll quote it, without notes [laughter-applause], he said: "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing." He said, "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing." He said, "I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Well, let me tell you something. If he'd stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. [Applause.] Now, I've got to admit the President hasn't been doing some of the things that he wants him to do. For example, at the Paris Conference when Mr. Khrushchev insulted him, when Mr. Khrushchev complained about the flights the President had ordered for the purpose of getting information and to protect this country against surprise attack, the President refused to follow the advice that apparently Mr. Kennedy would have given, he refused to apologize or to express regrets for the United States of America and its policies. [Applause.] And also the President of the United States has not followed his advice, an advice that he gave 5 years ago that out in the Pacific what we ought to do is, in effect, to surrender a piece of territory held by the forces of freedom at the point of a gun, to surrender it in the hope that if we did that this would lead to peace, but President Eisenhower and an overwhelming number of the Members of Congress rejected the view that he advocated then, it was wrong then, it's wrong today, and I say the American people want to continue President Eisenhower's policy which is the way to have peace when you're dealing with a dictator is to be firm and not to surrender principle or territory any place in the world at the point of a gun. [Applause.] Now what do my colleague and I offer in this respect? Well, first of all, we both know Mr. Khrushchev, we've sat at the conference table with him, we know what kind of a man he is, we know that he is a ruthless, fanatical man whose object is not Quemoy and Matsu, the islands you've been hearing about, not Formosa, but the world, and, therefore, we know that he and his Communist colleagues, if we're going to have peace, that America must do certain things. Now I know that Bridgeport is known as the "Arsenal of Democracy" and this is particularly appropriate, what I am going to say here today at this point. If America is going to be the guardian of peace in these years ahead, we've got to be sure that we're the strongest nation in the world. Today we are the strongest nation in the world despite what others may say, and I can assure you that under Cabot Lodge and me, we're going to continue it the strongest, and the American people will support us in that objective. [Applause.] This means we can never be satisfied with what we're doing because the situation changes, we've got to take advantage of new inventions as they come along, we've got to step up our defense forces as the Soviet Union moves in new directions, we've got to be sure that the time never comes that an American President is at a conference table where the man on the other side of the table says "I'm stronger than you are and I can blackmail you." And so, one, we will keep America strong militarily, and the second thing we will do is this. We will be firm in our diplomacy. We know this man as I emphasized. We know that he doesn't react like the leaders of the free world. We know that the naive and well-intentioned people who suggest that a concession here, or a concession there will lead to peace forget the lessons of history. My friends, we learned in Korea, we learned in dealing with Hitler that whenever you're confronted with a dictator, the way to peace is to strengthen strength and firmness, and the way to war is through weakness, both militarily and diplomatically. We stand for strength and firmness and that's what we're going to continue, and that's what the American people are going to vote for on November 8. [Applause.] And now, I'm sure, many people say: "Well, now, Mr. Nixon, that's all well and good, suppose we do have peace, what's going to happen at home here? What about our jobs? What about our schools? What about the housing, the medical care that we all want? Are we going to move forward?" Some of you might have been reading the papers that said: "Has America been standing still these last 7 years? Do we have to go back to the policies of Truman that Mr. Kennedy advocates in order to get going again?" [Crowd - "No."] All that I can say is this. Anybody who says America has been standing still hasn't been traveling around America the last 7½ years. [Applause.] He hasn't seen the fact that we've built more schools, more houses, that we've had better jobs, greater progress in these 7 years than in any 7 years in history, and we're going to continue to build even greater progress in the future under our leadership. [Applause.] Then there are those who might say: "But your opponent says he's going to spend more money to get progress.?" And my friends, whose money is he spending? It isn't his, you can be sure of that, it's yours! It's yours! And I say that the American people, yes, they want their Government to do what it should, and the Government must lead in seeing to it that we develop to the full the resources of this country, our human resources, our education, and we have to move forward and with leaving no Americans behind, but also my friends, we also have to remember that every time we spend a dollar in Washington, that it's a dollar that the people don't get to spend at home, and I say the very fact that our program will cost less of your money and do more is a reason to recommend them, and that the American people don't have to vote for programs that would raise your taxes, and raise your prices when you can get more progress with the way we offer it, the American way in this campaign [Applause.] And so I say to you today, consider our programs, consider what we say, but above all, you must consider the men, their record and we in that respect I would add this final point. I have had a very rare experience with my wife in the last 7½ years, we have represented America all over the world. We have been to 55 countries and for those who say, "How's it going to come out, Mr. Nixon? Are we going to have peace? Is freedom going to win? Or is the wave of the future the wave of communism?" And my answer is: Have faith in America. America has never been, is not now, and never will be a second-rate country if America will keep her faith in our country. [Applause.] And for those who say our prestige is falling, tell them to go abroad and see. Go to Poland as we did and see a quarter of a million Poles on the streets of Warsaw cheering and shouting, "Long live America," crying with tears running down their cheeks, why? Because America stands for the right things, not just for strength militarily, and not just for wealth, but for ideals, for our faith in God, for our belief in the rights of men, for our belief in equality of opportunity for all people, for our recognition that these rights belong not just to us, but that they belong to the whole world. That is what I believe. These are the things that I want to fight for! These are the things that I believe America can preserve not only for our own children but can extend to all the world, and that we can do it without war. And it is this kind of support that we ask in this campaign, if you believe that Cabot Lodge, my colleague, who has done such a magnificent job at the U.N., if you believe that he and I are the ones that can lead America into this bright new future of peace without surrender, a progress through more freedom rather than less freedom, then we ask for your support. Remember, yon will be working not just for us as men and not just for our party, but for what is best for America and the whole world. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Vice President NIXON. Thank you. Thank you very much, Pres Bush. I want to say first that we want to thank you for coming out and seeing us off as we fly on to Buffalo, N.Y. We didn't actually expect this crowd at the airport, but apparently the town of Stratford was going to have a meeting, so here it is and we do thank you for it. [Applause.] And for all of you who helped to plan it, but particularly for those of you who took the time and trouble to come out, park, and come out and greet us, we certainly want to express our appreciation. And, Tony, are you the only congressional candidate left here now? Fine, now let's be sure Tony gets elected back to the Congress, huh, hoe about it? Tony Sadlack. [Applause.] As you know, I've been speaking at three different meetings this morning. Our plane leaves very shortly, but there is this much I want to say to you. As I look over the crowds all day long, the thing that really stands out above everything else is the number of young people in the crowds, parents bring their children out, the schools are let out so that we can have a chance to see them and they, of course, see somebody who might be elected, but as we go along what certainly impresses the candidate is the tremendous responsibility you have to the future of this country. This is a very great country and we're very fortunate to live here, and certainly all of us want this country to continue to grow, to continue to develop so that our children can have an even better life than we have. But above all, we want them to grow up in a world of peace, in a world with freedom, and to understand what that means all you have to do is travel abroad and see people who don't have it. Go to the Soviet Union as we have, to Siberia, to the Urals, go to Poland as we have, and see the faces of people, go to the Austrian border as I did, and see the hungarian refugees come across the border at great risk, hundreds of thousands of them, or go to the other side of the world as we have to Indochina Vietnamese crying to get away from the Communists, Koreans moving from North to South, East Germans going to the West. With all of the talk these days about America being second class and second rate and our prestige going down, of all of these talks about the Communists making gains, let's never forget this: That whenever people have a chance to choose, a chance to vote by their fiat, they vote for freedom. That's why we're going to win the struggle of the world and why our children are going to grow up in a world of freedom. [Applause.] And we pledge to you to keep this country strong, to see that our children do have these opportunities that we all want for them for a better life, but above all to give the leadership that will make everybody proud of America, proud of what we stand for in the world, and proud of the ideals that we came into the world to preserve and that it is our destiny to extend to all the world. So thank you very much, and we again thank you for giving us a wonderful sendoff at the end of a great day of campaigning in Connecticut. Remember, we need your votes on election day, so work as you never have before. Thank you. [Applause.]
It is appropriate here in this great city of Buffalo with its largest percentage of population of Polish descent to say something about Poland, a great country and a great nation which has always occupied a very special place in the hearts of Americans. It is a subject which is close indeed to my heart, and not only because of many years of friendship with Polish-Americans and frequent participation in their activities in this country, but also because of those unforgettable moments - perhaps the most moving moments of my public life - amidst hundreds of thousands of Poles in the streets of Warsaw on that Sunday afternoon of August 4 just last year. Senator Kennedy has announced a so-called 7-point program for help to Poland. But most of his points have already been carried out by the present administration, not only in this campaign year but since 1957, when substantial American help to Poland first became possible. No one can argue with such items as the increase of exchanges, both economic and cultural, between our two countries because I am all for it - not only a few weeks before the election - but as I think has been demonstrated by my efforts in the past. And these things must be a part of any program for Poland. The same applies to the question of the use of so-called blocked currency in Poland. I can proudly say that in spite of political difficulties, constantly created by the regime in Warsaw, the U.S. Government under President Eisenhower has already provided Poland with help worth nearly one-half billion dollars. This includes specifically, administration for a pioneering effort in the use of blocked currency in the execution of an American research hospital for children in Cracow. If I become President, all possible economic and humanitarian assistance as well as cultural exchanges will be continued and will be increased, provided only that circumstances, including specifically the attitude and policy of the Warsaw regime, will make it possible. President Eisenhower's phrase, which I have heard him use so often, about the relation of words and deeds, is particularly relative to the Polish problem. In helping Poland we have already demonstrated in action our genuine friendship for the Polish nation in its time of need. This it seems to me should count more than glowing phrases and promises. I remember the words some years ago, "Poland is the inspiration of the world." It was a beautiful sentence. But shortly thereafter Poland was secretly divided and at Teheran one-half of its territory given to the Soviet Union. There were many beautiful words also in the infamous agreements of Yalta. All kinds of comforting assurances were offered at the very time that 100 million people in Eastern Europe, including the Poles, were put at the tender mercies of the Soviet rulers in Potsdam. Our Government also uttered some fine words about the totally fraudulent Polish elections of 1947, and at that time the United States was the only major power in the world. But they were only words. Every American, regardless of party, is ashamed of these actions. I am happy that Senator Kennedy now says we must never recognize Soviet domination in Eastern Europe, thereby restating precisely what President Eisenhower and I have repeatedly pledged over the years. Senator Kennedy may now be trying sincerely to correct the terrible sins of omission and commission of earlier administrations of his party, not only against the Polish nation but also against the ideals upon which America was founded. I hope his chief advisers on foreign policy, Mr. Stevenson, Mr. Bowles, and Mr. Schlesinger feel the same way. But actions speak louder than words. Concerning the problem of Poland let me say simply this: A truly free and independent Poland is essential to the people, security and for the development of Europe, and consequently of the whole world. When the Polish people are once again about to exercise their invaluable rights to self-government, when foreign overlords no longer impose their will on Poland, the security of all European nations now free and independent will be enhanced and the area of freedom will inevitably expand to those other European nations now enslaved. During the 5 years of World War II and the postwar years of moral, political, and economic exploitation, the Polish people suffered immeasurable misery. As a result of Teheran and Yalta agreements, Poland was not only deprived of freedom but of her eastern territories. Millions of people who escaped Siberia were forced to move hundreds of miles to the west, to rebuild their homes and to start a new life in the present western territories. This is a fact of postwar history. Another fact in relation to these territorial changes is that all Poles in Poland as well as abroad are united in their determination to defend the new western frontier. These facts must inevitably influence the attitude of the Western Powers, particularly since Poland is the largest natural ally of the West among the Communist dominated nations and also, as I myself have seen, one of the most anti-Communist nations in the world. It is urgent, therefore, that the next administration formulate and carry out its policies in such a way as to contribute to the maintenance of the hopes and to the strengthening of the morale and vitality of the Polish people. There must be nothing done on the American side which would hurt the basic interests of the Polish nation. On the contrary, everything must be done to strengthen the determination of the Poles to be, one day, their own masters in their own homes.
Governor Rockefeller, Senator Keating, Congressman Pillion, Mr. Kowal, Mr. Radwan, all the distinguished guests on the platform and this wonderful audience here: I want to say first that my wife, Pat, and I have greatly enjoyed this, what I would call, interlude in campaigning to come here to what you refer to as the East Side, to come here to this hall and to participate in this program. I call it an interlude, because we feel that this is a meeting that comes from the heart, and we have felt it from the moment that we arrived here. We feel it in the eloquence of the introduction, in the statement by the chairman, in the statements made by Mr. Kowal, and also, of course, in the presentation of the flowers, of the gift that I received, the two little girls standing here, one sitting on my lap, the other making the talk to the audience. I want to say something about the one that stood on that stool here and spoke to this great audience a few moments ago. She's a very pretty girl, and that probably means that she will be married and probably grow up and have a fine family, but I'll say this: here is a girl that I predict some day is going to run for something and win. She will be a Congresswoman, a Senator, or something. She's really good. You know, I see many people in public life, and I have never seen a grown person with more poise than this little girl, and I certainly was very happy to see her and also her costume. Now, as you know, I later on am going to speak in a meeting which will be held, which I know many of you will attend. However, there were some thoughts that I did want to convey particularly to this group in this meeting in view of the background which you share and in view of the interest you have. Governor Rockefeller, incidentally, stated very eloquently and effectively and vigorously some of the things that I feel deeply. I would like to expand on them a bit, however. I would like to expand on them in the context of personal experience. You know, when you who are voters are confronted with a choice in a presidential campaign or a congressional campaign, I imagine it's very difficult sometimes for you to decide which man to vote for, which man can you believe, which one can you trust, which can do the job, because, for example, my opponent, if he were to come before a group like this, would say, "I'm for what you people believe in," and those of you who, of course, would be interested in the situation in Poland, a country from which many of your fathers and mothers may have come or from which even you may have come, might say, "well, after all, if he's for these things, and the Vice President is for these programs, who can produce?" I mean: which ones are we to believe? Which ones are we to trust? And that is, of course, why we have elections, because the people sense these things, you know. You can feel it deep within you. You know from the experience of the men; you know from what they have said and what they have done all their lives. And I'm not here to say that my opponent lacks the qualifications to deal with these problems. I am here to talk to you about what I believe and what I feel, and I begin, first, with a personal experience, one which is related to something that I feel very deeply in my heart. We saw this little girl and the other one who sat on my lap in their costumes, costumes going back to the great colorful and magnificent Polish tradition. You know what it made me think of? It made me think, as I am sure it made you think, of how rich a country America is. What do I mean by the most productive nation in the world, and what do I mean by richness? Oh, I don't mean the richness of our factories, the fact that we are the most productive nation in the world, and we are. I don't mean the richness that comes from the fact that we have the best wages and the highest standard of living, and that we're the best fed, best clothed people in the world, but I mean the richness as far as our people are concerned. You know, we're a people that derives our culture, our music, our customs, our clothes, our background, everything, from all the peoples of the world. Who are Americans? Americans come from all the continents and all the peoples.  We're a very rich country, and it's this great diversified picture of the whole of America that we must never forget, and it also reminds us, when we see something like this, that if we want America to continue to be a great country, our doors must always be open to people from abroad who can enrich our land, as it's always been open in the past. It means if we want America to continue to be a great country, we must fight with all our might against those forces of hatred and prejudice that would divide us on any ground except those grounds that are legitimate in a political campaign. It means that, in other words, we must recognize that all Americans must go forward together in progress, leaving none behind. These are the things that I thought of, as I am sure you did, as we attend this meeting today. And then with the references to Poland, a reference made to the trip that my wife, Pat, and I took to Poland - I remembered it, as I have often recalled it in the speeches that I have made, and I recall it very briefly to you here today. This is something again that you cannot describe in words. This is something you have lived through. It's something that has left a mark, a feeling in your heart that will never leave and that, therefore, will affect your attitude on the problems concerning this area of the world, that will forever stay there, because you have been through it. You have seen it. You have felt it. Let me tell you what I saw and what I felt and what my wife saw and what she felt. The reference was made to Mr. Khrushchev. I remember the last day that we saw him, and then getting on the plane in Moscow and flying out of Moscow to Poland. It was a Sunday afternoon. Now remember this: the people of Poland today are driven hard. They work terribly hard. There's no 5-day week there, it is 6 days. Usually Sunday afternoon is the only time off that most of them have. Get this: the present Government of Poland was a little embarrassed by our visit. They wanted us to come in a way, but, on the other hand, they didn't want too big a reception, because Khrushchev had been there just 2 weeks before and he had gotten a very cold reception from the Polish people - a very cold reception. And the result was this: here we landed, the Vice President of the United States and Mrs. Nixon, and the Government had put out no notice of when we would arrive. They hadn't put out any notice of where our car would drive as it went through the suburbs of Warsaw. In this country, the word got around like wildfire through the underground, as it always does in a dictatorial country. And so the crowds were out. Very few at the airport, just the dignitaries, those there to welcome us, the diplomatic corps, very proper, very restrained, but the moment we left that airport, little knots of people in the suburbs leading into Warsaw, and those people - I want to tell you I have seen political campaigns where they get excited toward the last but these people - these people were feeling something in their hearts that no words will ever possibly describe. I remember as we drove out of the airport there was a little knot of people, and somebody threw something into the car. Well, I've had things thrown at me in South America, and I wondered a minute what this was. But you know what this was? This was a beautiful bouquet of roses, and it was the first of literally hundreds and hundreds of bouquets of roses and chrysanthemums and all the flowers there. And I asked the man riding with me, "How in the world do they do this, these people?" Many of them were poor. And you know what the story was afterward? The people of Warsaw did throw hundreds of bouquets in our car, and in the other cars, in the great Polish custom. But there was a great difference. Two weeks before the Government bought the flowers to throw and they didn't throw them. They kept them.  But this time - this time - one of the newsmen asked a little girl who had thrown some flowers or asked her father, "Where did you get the roses?" He said, "Well, this time we bought the flowers with our own money." That was the difference in the reception. But that wasn't all. The cars moved in, people cheering and shouting all the way in, and we got into downtown Warsaw and eight times the caravan was stopped by people swarming around, friendly crowds. They were cheering at the top of their voices, "Niech Zyje America - Niech Zyje Eisenhower." And the car stopped and I looked into their faces and they grabbed my hand and some of them kissed my hand and Pat's, and then, I looked into their eyes. You know a lot of them were smiling and laughing for joy, but over half of these people, grown people were crying. With tears streaming down their cheeks. And that was the way 250,000, a quarter of a million people, welcomed the Vice President and his wife to Warsaw.  Now, why? We hear a great deal these days about what America stands for. We're the strongest nation in the world, and that's true. We're the richest nation in the world, that's true. But the people of Poland were not cheering me and Pat because America was strong and because she was rich. Khrushchev had bragged about that kind of strength. But that's all that he had. The people of Poland were cheering us not because we were famous, because we weren't to them. They were cheering because America stood, for them and for all the world, for something more than atheistic materialism and military strength. We stood for ideals - for a faith in God, for the belief in the rights of men, for the belief in the rights of all nations to be independent, for recognition that the freedoms which we enjoy here belong not just to us but that they belong to the whole world, and that America from the time of her foundation has stood for those freedoms, not just for ourselves, but for others, too, and that America today stands not just for holding the line against aggression, not just for fighting communism and keeping it out of the United States, but that America can, and, as Nelson Rockefeller has indicated, does stand for extending freedom, extending it to all the world. And now, my friends, how do we do that? We cannot do it, as you know, by a great war, a war which would destroy not only the Polish people who have suffered more by war than any people in Europe, one out of every four Poles having been killed in World War II by both sides, the Russians and the other side as well.  We are not going to do that way. We know that. But people say: "If you're not going to do it by war, how else? How else is the solution?" My friends, the tyrants of all time have underestimated the strength of moral and spiritual ideals. They have underestimated the strength of faith, and through the centuries those who have believed in freedom have brought down the tyrants - and it will happen again. It will happen in Poland. It will happen throughout the world. Now, as we do it, though, these are the things America must do, and I will summarize them briefly for you today. First, we must keep our contacts with the brave people of Poland. How do we do that? This means exchange, in every way that we possibly can, and stepping it up to the extent the Polish Government will allow it. This also means helping the people of Poland - not just the Government, but the people - with our agricultural surpluses and other things that we have done - and, incidentally, about a half a billion dollars' worth of help has gone from America to Poland. But the main thing is to remember that the purpose of this help is to reach the people of Poland so that they keep in their hearts the hope that liberty and freedom will come to them and so that they will know that America has not forgotten them, and this pledge we will continue to live by. We will continue our contacts with the people of Poland. We will continue having our leaders go to Poland. We will continue having our people go there so that they will know we have not forgotten them, and we will continue at the diplomatic level some things that I think all of you will agree with. The people of Poland must recognize - as must the people of all the Iron Curtain countries - that the United States will never make a deal with Khrushchev or anybody else which imposes slavery upon them. And I would like to say to some of those young fellows carrying the signs out there that it was not a Republican administration that made the deal that put Poland where she is, and we never will make such a deal. But may I also say that this is not a Republican and a Democratic issue. I say Democrats and Republicans alike are ashamed of that deal and we're going to support people who stand against it in this campaign. There's another thing we must do. We must not only never make a deal that will give Khrushchev what he wants - that means the status quo - leaving him alone so that he can do what he wants on our part of the world. This he must not have; but, in addition to that, we must never in our dealings with him allow him to push us around. Now, what do I mean by that? What do I mean? That's why the suggestion, a very well-intentioned suggestion, but so naive, made by my opponent that President Eisenhower could have apologized to Khrushchev for defending the United States was so wrong. That's why the suggestion, and it's again a very naive and well-intentioned suggestion, that the United States should surrender some islands of freedom at the point of a gun is wrong. It's wrong - why? People say, "Well, there are only a few people on those islands," and that's true. "They could be moved to Formosa." People could say, as he did, "They're just a couple of worthless rocks in the Pacific." Well, just let me say this: Look at what that does to people who want to be free. They'll say, "Here goes America again trading away the rights of free people at the point of a gun." We're not going to do it. We stopped that in 1953. We're never going to do it again, and after 1960, we are going to continue to lead that way in the future. And so I say to all of you, Democrats and Republicans alike, if you want hope for the people who want to be free, you have in Cabot Lodge and me two men who know Mr. Khrushchev, who will not be taken in by him, who won't apologize to him, who won't make a deal with him that will sell other people into captivity and who will always stand for freedom throughout the world. If, in other words, you want hope, we believe we have the program that will extend freedom, extend it without war, extend it through our diplomacy, through the strength of America's economic power, but also primarily through the strength of our great ideals, those ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago and that live in the hearts of every American, that live in the heart of everyone in Poland, in my opinion. These are the things I believe in, and again I say: I don't question but that my opponent says that he believes in it, too, but I submit to you I have been through it; I have seen it; I have felt it, and everyone who saw what I saw on the streets of Warsaw, anyone who saw those Hungarian students and workers come across the border from Hungary in the middle of the night, as I saw them 3 years ago, anybody who has seen that, you can be sure, will take the stand that America wants to extend freedom throughout the world. Thank you very much.
I also want to say that, in speaking to you today, having this rally, one of the truly great rallies of American political history, a tremendously exciting event, occur on this particular day is of great significance. If you were to question the men behind me, many of whom have had far more experience in political life than I have, people like Walter Mahoney, for example, you would find this is what they will tell you: They would all tell you that the critical period of a campaign is the last 3 weeks. Up until that time the campaign moves along, but up until that time a great number of people are undecided about how they are going to vote. After all, there is the world series, and before that there was the United Nations, and before that there was summer vacation and the like, but 3 weeks before the end the campaign picks up and people make up their minds. Campaigns are won or lost in the last 3 weeks. That's why this evening, as I said earlier today in Hartford, Conn., is the time to step up the campaign - and I'm going to start right here at this rally tonight in Buffalo and Erie County; and I say to all of you who are supporting our cause: Remember, this is the time when you are going to separate the men from the boys. This is the time when we go to work. This is the time when we must work for our cause because the work that you do between now and election will well decide the very great and close States - and, based on what I have seen, on the reports that I have heard, if the momentum we have in the State of New York, which is exemplified by this rally tonight, continues - and it must continue - continues from now until election day - we will carry New York, and New York means the Nation, on November the 8th. Governor Rockefeller has truly stated the great issue of this campaign. It is the survival of the Nation. It is the survival of freedom. It's the kind of a world not only that we will live in, but the kind of world that our children will live in for generations to come. When such an issue like that is before the Nation, it is important that men and women who vote think not just of their party, but that they think of America first. It is important that we have in mind that, as we make this decision, we are electing men, a President and a Vice President who will not only handle the problems of America but we are electing men who will make decisions that may determine the difference as to whether or not we have war or surrender in the period ahead - and, putting it more bluntly, I say that the major qualification, above everything else, that the next President of the United States and the next Vice President must have is this: Which of the candidates are best qualified, by experience, by background, by judgment, to keep the peace and keep it without surrender of principle or territory? Tonight I submit to you our case. I ask you to compare it with our opponents', and then I leave the decision in your hands, in the hands of the Republicans, the Democrats, all of those in this great audience and the thousands outside who couldn't get in and those who will be listening on television and radio.  Point one: First of all, we, Cabot Lodge and I, submit to the American people our record. And what is that record? For 7½ years we have been members of the Eisenhower administration. We have sat in the councils of this administration. Listen to what we have done. We have sat in the meetings of the National Security Council. We have participated in the meetings of the Cabinet. We have been in Washington, in the President's office, when the great decisions have been made, and we have participated in the discussions on Lebanon, on Matsu, and Quemoy. In all these great decisions that have been made in these last 7½ years we have participated. So, therefore, the American people must and have a right to judge us by this record. And, so, in talking of the record I speak of it tonight proudly, and in speaking of that record may I say this: I recognize there are those who do not speak of it as I will, and that is their right. It is the right of our opponents to criticize our record where they think it is wrong, hut it is also our responsibility to nail them every time they distort the record of this administration - and that's what we're going to do. And, so, we have heard a chorus over the past few weeks of everything we've done wrong. The President did this wrong and he did that wrong, and the Secretary of State shouldn't have done this and he should have done that over the last 7½ years. What is the answer to the criticism? Well, the American people know. They know in their hearts and their minds and their souls, and they aren't going to he fooled by all the doubletalk and the criticism because the American people know that in 1953 there was a war. The American people know that they will be forever grateful to Dwight Eisenhower for getting this Nation out of the war, for keeping it out of others, and for having peace without surrender today. "Ah, yes," some people say, "but, Mr. Nixon, that's true. We were in a war, and we stopped it. We have avoided other wars, but things are very bad now. Our prestige is falling to an all-time low. We find that our strength is being sapped. We find that our economy is not running as it should. We find that our education is second, our science is second, that America is going to the dogs." Just let me say this: I say that as far as America is concerned certainly there are things that are wrong. There are things certainly that we can correct, but it isn't necessary to run America down in order to build her up - and certainly we are not going to do that. And the kind of talk that I don't think helps America either at home or abroad is the kind of talk that my opponent engaged in while he was in upper New York a couple of weeks ago. I will quote exactly what he said, without notes. He said: "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me just say something. If he'd stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, let's just keep the record straight. It's true he hasn't been doing some of the things that Mr. Kennedy has suggested. He didn't express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for attempting to defend the security of the United States against surprise attack, and he didn't follow the advice that Mr. Kennedy and 12 other Senators would have given in 1955 of drawing a line which would have left out Quemoy and Matsu and which would have invited attack in that area. He didn't do that, and we can be thankful the President didn't do that. And, yes, I'll admit he hasn't been making the news the way Mr. Khrushchev has. He hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations either, and I think we are all thankful for that. He hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo unilaterally as has Mr. Khrushchev, but he has been working through the United Nations, as we should all be proud that he has and that America has, to protect the independence of this country and of all countries. Now let me just say this: When we look at the record, it is one which we can all be proud of. It's one which we can build on, and it's one which we shall build on if you give us that opportunity. And now we come to the next point. We have this record. We also have experience, of which the American people acknowledge. Both of us, Cabot Lodge and I, know Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communists. We have sat opposite the table at the conferences with Mr. Khrushchev, and you know - the people know - how we will react to Mr. Khrushchev. Now, there will be criticism of what we have said or done, and I have noted they have said all we have done has been debating with Mr. Khrushchev, but let me say this: I have no apology for standing up for the United States wherever Khrushchev was concerned when I visited the Soviet Union - and I think the American people wanted me to do exactly what I did when I was there. Knowing him as we do, then, we believe some things. We believe some things are necessary that America must do if we are to keep the peace, if we are to keep it without surrender and if we are to go beyond that - extend freedom throughout the world. And now may we lock to the future. May we look at it in terms of the past and what we must do to build this future to which Governor Rockefeller has referred and to which I shall also refer tonight. Point 1. For the last 7½ years we have held the line against Communist aggression. We have not allowed the Communists to move, through military forces, into other parts of the world. Now the point comes: Where do we go from here? My friends, it would be easy to say that all we have to do is to do what we have been doing, but that isn't enough. I say to you that, because of the threat that America faces today, America can't rest on her laurels. We can't say that what we have been doing militarily is enough and that we need to do no more than that. We can't say that what we have been doing economically is good enough and that we are not going to do any more than that. We can't say that what we have been doing in supporting the United Nations and building the instruments of freedom is enough and do no more than that, because now, after holding the line and stopping the growth of communism, it is time to launch an offensive for freedom throughout the world - and to do that we need to strengthen America everywhere up and down the line. Now, what are the things we must do then? First, because Mr. Khrushchev is the kind of man he is, because he is a ruthless man who is determined to conquer the world by any means, if necessary, America must be the strongest nation in the world. Let's get one thing straight. We are the strongest nation in the world today. Let's also understand, however, that it is going to be necessary for America to increase her strength, increase her strength because new developments are coming along that require even more expenditures than we've had in the past, increase her strength because we find that the Soviet Union is, of course, moving up its strength because of its desires of world conquest. So, I say to you tonight that Cabot Lodge and I, working in this administration, will see that America maintains an absolute advantage militarily - and we are confident the American people will pay whatever is necessary to see that we are the strongest nation in the world and can be the guardians of peace in the years ahead. Incidentally, I want to pay my respects to the tremendous contribution to our defense areas by many in this audience, by the people in this area, and also to our congressional delegation who have spoken to me often about that contribution. It shall continue, and we need this area to continue to build America's strength as you have in the past, to build it in the future as well. Now I want to turn to another kind of strength. Military strength is necessary because America, as the guardian of peace, must be stronger than those who threaten the peace, but military strength means nothing at all unless you're also strong and firm at the diplomatic table. Now what do I mean by that? I mean by that, that in our diplomacy we must again recognize the kind of men we're dealing with. They don't react like Mr. Macmillan and/or Mr. De Gaulle or Mr. Adenauer or Mr. Nehru, the leaders of the free world. These are men who break all the rules of the game. These are the men who respect only consistency, who respect only firmness, and, therefore, the policy of our administration, as has been the policy of President Eisenhower, will always be nonbelligerent. We're never going to lose our dignity by trading insults for insults with Mr. Khrushchev, but we will always stand firmly in the right as he stands firmly in the wrong, and that's the only way to keep the peace without surrender in the years ahead. Now you know what we will do, because we have been tried. We have been tested. We have been through the fire of dealing with this man and his colleagues. What will our opponents do? Well, we've had a pretty good example in recent weeks and months. Let's look, for example, at what has developed on these two little islands that you have heard so much about, Quemoy and Matsu - small islands, very few people, only 50,000 on them, and yet these two islands have become a major symbol to the world, and a great issue in this campaign. Why? Because our opponent opened up the subject. Because, after a policy had been successful, and for 5 years, as a result of a congressional mandate, the President of the United States has had the power to use the military forces of this country to defend freedom in that area, including these islands, if he thought it was necessary, for the defense of our allies. For 5 years that has avoided war or surrender in that area, and now comes a presidential campaign and Mr. Kennedy, shooting from the hip, talking off the top of his head, says we should change this policy and we should draw a line leaving these islands out. Well, just let me say this: Before he talks about new frontiers and conquering them we had better not abandon the frontiers of freedom that we already have. But some will say, "But didn't he say on 'Meet the Press' that he supported the President?" Yes, but look - look what he says. He said on September 30: "I have always thought it was an unwise place to draw the line." He thought the line should be drawn behind the islands so that they could be abandoned. And in our second TV debate, you may remember: "It has been my judgment ever since 1954" - when he voted that way - "that our line should be drawn in the sea around Formosa, not including these islands." And then he said: "That we will defend Quemoy and Matsu under some conditions, but not under others, I think is a mistake." And yet yesterday he said: "I agree with the President. I have never disagreed with that position." And yet just 3 days before, he had completely disagreed with it, and he does not retract it. All that I can say is this: That at the present time the President's position is clear. My position is clear. As the President has said, certainly there is always the possibility that in certain contingencies, after taking account of all relevant facts, it may become necessary or appropriate for the defense of Formosa and the Pescadores to take measures to secure and protect the related positions of Quemoy and Matsu. But what does Mr. Kennedy say? "I have always thought that was an unwise place to draw the line," September 30. Whom are we to believe - the man who said that or the man who voted not to draw the line, as the President has drawn it there 5 years ago, or the man on October 16 who says he agrees with the President? I say this is just straight doubletalk, and the American people have had enough of it and they don't want any more of it. They want him to come out and say - and I say again - I say again - the American people are entitled to have an answer to this question. It is a very simple one: Does he retract his statements in September and in our second TV debate indicating that he would draw a definite line that would leave out Quemoy and Matsu, a policy directly opposed to that of the President? I call upon him to do this, and I'll tell you why. Because if such statements by a presidential candidate remain in the record, it is an express invitation for the Communists to blackmail us by threats of force all over the world. All that I can say is: How can the American people have confidence in a man who shoots from the hip on matters like this, who acts first and acts fast, as he puts it? Twice he's made statements that would make us a sitting duck for the Communists to push us around - the regret statement on the U-2 flights, and then this statement to which I referred, and in which we would abandon Quemoy and Matsu at the gunpoint of the Communists. In both cases, I say that this kind of talking off the cuff, shooting from the hip, shows a very dangerous immaturity in world affairs. Now think for a moment. Suppose he had made these mistakes if he had been President of the United States. The free world couldn't have afforded it. I say in the menacing situation we face today in the world, we cannot have, as America's leader, a man who makes mistakes of this magnitude, nor can we have a man who today says he thinks one way and tomorrow says the opposite, because firmness and consistency are essential if we are to avoid war or surrender in dealing with the Communists. And then there is just one other point along the same line. You have heard a lot about the recognition of Communist China and admitting it to the U.N., and yesterday Mr. Kennedy indicated that he opposed its present admission to the U.N., and yet only 2 weeks ago, Mr. Stevenson, who is his top foreign policy adviser, or at least who is alleged to be one of them, said that he would consider favoring a deal under which we would trade admitting Communist China to the U.N. in favor of a guarantee of freedom for Formosa. Now that's trading one horse for one rabbit, because Formosa is already free, and Communist China isn't in the U.N., and if we're elected, it won't get into the U.N. until it changes its policies with regard to --- I say to you tonight it isn't enough for a candidate for the Presidency to say that he personally opposes its admission. The people are entitled to know whether he agrees with his foreign policy adviser, and I again say that he should disavow this statement, because certainly it isn't possible and it isn't good for his foreign policy adviser to say one thing on a critical issue and for him to say another. What I am really trying to say here is this: That in this critical period, my friends, the easy course, the one that I know might be appealing to some would be to say "There's an easy way to peace. We can have this concession or that one. If we talk a little differently toward Mr. Khrushchev, he will change his ways." But, my friends, we have learned the hard way that when on deal with a dictator, whether it was Hitler or whether it was Stalin after him, or whether it was Mao Tse-tung after him, or whether it was Khrushchev today, whether it was Korea or Quemoy-Matsu, that the road to war or surrender is paved with weakness diplomatically and militarily and that's why I say that the American people must judge our opponent; they must judge us. We know what we're dealing with. We will keep America strong militarily, but we will also see that our diplomacy is strong so that we can keep the peace and keep it without surrender in the years ahead. Now I have spoken of our military strength, of our diplomatic firmness. I would not want this evening to conclude without my mentioning another phase of this struggle, if only briefly, which will be decisive, because with the great military strength which we will have, with the diplomatic firmness which I know the American people will support, we will keep communism in check, but to extend freedom, to extend it to all the world without war, we need to mount a great offensive. It must be economic in character, but, above all, it must be ideological in character. It must be a moral and spiritual offensive of the highest quality if we are to win this struggle, and win it without war. And what does this mean to America? It means that America must move forward economically. Mr. Khrushchev must not catch us, and he won't if we remain true to the great principles that have made America the richest and strongest country in the world today. Mr. Khrushchev will not catch us. He will not catch us provided we do everything that we can to develop to the full the human resources, the natural resources of this country, provided we see that every American has a chance, his equal chance, to make his contribution to America's greatness. And here in this field I am proud to be running on the platform and standing on a program that will move America forward; and I say that America wants to move forward with us rather than go back to the policies that our opponent offers, and they are the policies we left behind in 1953, and we're not going to go back to those in 1960. How do we extend freedom? There are those who will tell you that where the Communists and the dictators of all time are concerned, that moral strength and ideals mean very little to them. That's true, but they mean everything to people, to people on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Earlier today I appeared at the Polish Union Hall. I want to tell you what I told them. I have seen and I know the strength of moral and spiritual ideals. I know we're going to win. I know what we have to do to win, because I have seen it around the world, and I saw it most dramatically in Poland just a year ago. As we came into Warsaw on a Sunday afternoon, with no notice as to when we would arrive or where we were going to go, the word had gotten around through the underground. There were a quarter of a million people on the streets. You know what they were doing? They were cheering at the top of their voices, as you have cheered, shouting, "Niech Zyje America," Niech Zyje Eisenhower" - "Long live Eisenhower" and then, as the car stopped in the middle of the streets time and time again, because of the crowd surging around, they threw hundreds of bouquets of flowers into our car. I looked into their faces. Some of them were laughing and others - more, I would say - grown men and women, were crying, just tears streaming down their cheeks. Now why this tremendous display of emotion? Not because we were famous, because we were not to them. Not because America was rich - they knew that - or strong. They knew that. Khrushchev had been there 2 weeks before, and he bragged about that kind of strength. No; the reason a quarter of a million Poles on that Sunday afternoon were shouting and crying and expressing their feelings for America was because they knew that America stood for something more than Mr. Khrushchev stands, that we stand for ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. What are they? Our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of men; our belief that all men and women, regardless of their background, have rights to equality of opportunity that no man can take away; our belief that every nation has the right to be independent, that all people have a right to be free; our history that we have always stood not only for our own rights and our own freedoms, but for the rights of others. This is what America came into the world to preserve. This is what America's destiny it is to extend, and I say to you: It is this kind of greatness that will win this struggle, and it will come from you, because a leader can talk about greatness, but he can only lead as greatly as the people are great, and the ideals that America has, its moral and spiritual strength, must come from the churches; it must come from the schools; it must come from the homes; it must come from the hearts of the American people. And, so, I say to you tonight, my friends, we are the strongest nation militarily. We're the strongest economically. We have the power to keep the peace. We have the power to avoid surrender, but we also have the greatest power that has ever been imagined in the world. We're on the right side, the side of freedom, the side of justice, against the forces of atheism and the forces of injustice, and we can lead America to victory, with your help. That is our case, and I say to you: If you believe that Cabot Lodge and I are worthy of your trust to provide this leadership, that we will not let you down. Thank you very much.
Senator Bush, all the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this wonderful audience inside the auditorium, incidentally, I think you should know there are more outside the auditorium than in but we just don't have enough room. [Cheers.] I don't know whether the public address system is carrying out there or not, but if it is, I want the people outside to know that I will try to get out afterward and speak to them as well so that we can have an opportunity to meet all those who have taken the time to come out for this meeting. [Cheers and applause.] Normally when we come to Hartford we've had this great meeting outside in the square but this year because we were having the meeting a little earlier and weather problems, they thought we ought to move it in. I can only say that with this beautiful California day we should have been outside. [Cheers.] There are so many reasons that I have looked forward to this particular meeting and this weekend. As you know I've spent the weekend in Hartford. I came here to get a little sleep. [Laughter.] I didn't get much the first night because the airplane arrived about I o'clock, as you recall, and half of Hartford was at the airport. [Cheers.] I should say half of Connecticut because there were people. So that was somewhat of a surprise. So I went into the hotel and got up early the next morning because we had a number of strategy meetings with our major campaign people. And then the day went on. So last night I said well this is the night I'm going to sleep. Apparently we had some very enthusiastic drum and bugle and fife and drum corps outside all night long. So I just want to thank them for their enthusiasm. But if I look a little sleepy today, that's the reason. But we thank you for that reason. [Applause and cheers.] Whatever the reason I want to say this. In all the States we have been, I have seen no State in which there has been more enthusiasm day and night than in Hartford, Conn. [Applause.]  My only regret is that Pat, my wife, could not be with me to come in last night and she isn't here this morning at this meeting. As you know, she's a granddaughter of Connecticut. If we win Connecticut, Pat's the one that's getting the votes, I can assure you, rather than me [Applause]. Somebody back here said if, of course, we're going to win Connecticut. [Cheers.] But Pat went down to Washington from our last stop in Springfield, as I explained to the crowd at the airport. She will join us, however, right toward the end of this meeting and will be in the motorcade down through New Haven and Hartford. So those of you who would like to see her, I'm sure some of you will, will have that opportunity then.  But certainly that reason, a very personal one which I know you'll understand, is one reason that I wanted to come back here. Another one, incidentally, were the three men that just stood by me on this platform. [Applause and cheers.] I am proud to run with all of our Republican candidates. You know one thing about election returns is this. The returns for Congress from Connecticut come in first. I don't know whether you know that but I have listened to the returns many years, 1952, 1954, 1956, 1958. And those six in Connecticut usually go all one way, all the other. Now we're going to be listening to the returns from Connecticut. We're not only going to be listening to what happens to the electoral votes at the top of the ticket, we're going to be listening to what happens to those six Congressmen from Connecticut. In 1958 we knew when the returns from Connecticut came in that it was going to be a bad year for the Republicans. This year with the party, spirit, with the candidates we have, with fellows like Tony Sadlak, and Seeley-Brown, and Tom Brennan, and Al Cretella and others, that I will meet later on today, we've got to get and we will get these six Congressmen from Connecticut and you work for all of them. [Cheers and applause.]  Also, I would like to say that one of the highlights of our campaign was the opportunity yesterday to visit Trinity College. [Cheers.] I hear even some girls cheering. I always enjoy going to a college campus, and that magnificent gem of a chapel there was one that I think is a replica of one I saw at Oxford when I was there on my trip to Britain last year. But apart from the chapel, it was a wonderful experience. So this day in Hartford will be long remembered, not mostly for that but mostly for your welcome, for the fact so many of you would come to the airport and so many of you would come out this morning and for this enthusiasm.  Now why is this important right now? I want to tell you what day this is. This is the day the campaign really begins. I'll tell you why. In every campaign, they begin of course when the Speeches begin. And sometimes they go on for many years. Sometimes they go on and start at the convention as ours did. Except for any lapses that occur, a visit to the hospital or the like, you just keep going all the time. But in this instance, and I would say as I judge political campaigns, there isn't any question but that when in a close campaign the time that counts the most are the last 3 weeks. And if you ask any of the experienced men on this platform who have been in campaigns, these three fellows for Congress, Ed May, Pres Bush, Alcorn, Bill Purtell, they will tell you that in a close campaign, the whole situation is decided by who has the greatest lift and the greatest drive in the last 3 weeks. This is Monday, the first of the last 3 weeks. This is the time that the campaign really begins to move. This is the time that we ask our volunteer workers, whatever they have done before, to step it up because between now and the first - 8th of November is when the undecided voters make up their minds. Now everything that we have read up to this point indicates that the number of undecided voters this year is perhaps greater than ever before at this time in the campaign. So we think in this election we've got the best ticket. We think we've got the best case. But how this election will be determined in these last 3 weeks is who will work the hardest and fight the hardest. From what I have seen here in Connecticut, everything indicates it's close. Everything indicates that certainly it's a horse race at this point. But I am certainly convinced that we are not going to be out-fought or outworked and you're going to go out and carry this campaign these next 3 weeks and that's--- [Cheers.] Now if I could give you just a little ammunition. First, what should your arguments be? What do we have to offer? What should the people of the United States, the people of Connecticut, be thinking about particularly as they vote for President and Vice President in this year 1960? You recall on our first television debate - the second one I mean - the question was raised toward the end of the debate as to whether the party or the man should be the most important consideration in determining how people voted. Senator Kennedy suggested that the party was what was most important. And I answer today as I did then. In this year 1960 the people of this country will not only be electing the President of this country, we will be electing a man who will have the responsibility of leading the forces of freedom. We will be electing a man whose decisions may make the difference between war or peace, may make the difference between whether or not freedom is extended or whether freedom retreats. All that I can say is this, because the next President of the United States will have such great responsibilities to America, to the cause of freedom, to the whole world, it isn't enough just to vote as your grandfather did. It isn't enough just to vote as your father did. It isn't enough just to vote as somebody in an organization to which you may belong tells you to vote. It isn't enough just to vote a party label if your label happens to be the same as mine, or for that matter if it happens to be the same as the other fellow to vote for him. I say that in this year 1960, and this is the way we ought to present our case, we go before the people and we say we believe that you should support our ticket because we believe in this year that what should come first is not the party, nothing else but America. Let's vote for what's best for America and we will win. [Cheers.] What does America need? What does America want from its next President? We want a great number of things. There's no question about that. I think if we were to begin we would probably think of the most obvious things. If you were to ask the housewives here, and the fathers and mothers, and the rest, I'm sure that most of them would say, well, in America we want a better life for our children than we had for ourselves. We want government under which we can have progress. We want to have continually improving economic conditions so that we can have better jobs, higher wages, and also we want to be sure that we have policies under which the prices of the things we buy don't skyrocket so they don't eat up the paycheck. We want all these things. These are natural things that come to our minds. We also want better schools because certainly we think of our children and as good as our opportunities have been, we want theirs to be better. We want better hospitals, better medical care. As a matter of fact, I remember my father always used to say to the five of us when we were growing up, he never wanted to go back to the good old days. You often hear that said, but he never said it. He said, "I never want to go back to the good old days; I don't want you to either." He said, "We're never satisfied with things as they are. In America we want to move forward. We want to look to the future." And so I say that all of us in America, if we were to say what kind of a government do we want, we would say first, that, well, we want government in which we can have progress, better schools, housing, all these things which spell progress. Let me say in that connection, too, I am proud to represent today a program, a platform that was issued, which will bring progress to America, which will bring the greatest progress this Nation has ever had. [Applause.] I want to say right at the outset that of course there are others that disagree. For example, when you hear by suggestion we will stand for progress, some of you may have heard the stories that have been going around a great deal to the effect, particularly in speeches by our opponents, that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. [No !] We haven't been moving. Oh we're not moving. We've got to get going again and the way to get going again, they say give us the reins and we will cross the new frontiers. Just let me say this. You're not going to cross any new frontiers in an old jalopy that is a retread of what we left in 1953. [Cheers.] There is nothing new in the program offered by our opponents that hasn't been tried and found wanting before. Look at their programs. Whether it's in the case of the interest rates, a very complicated problem which they have been trying to talk about, whether it is the case of their other programs, it's a return to the kind of philosophy that America left in 1953. And what happened in that 7-year period? Listen, anybody that says America has been standing still for the last 7 years hasn't been traveling in America. He's been traveling someplace else or he's got blinders on, one of the two. [Cheers.] I ask you to judge for yourself. Travel around this country. Look it the new developments. Look at the new schools, the new highways. Listen! There have been more schools built, more hospitals built, more highways built, greater improvement in jobs, more improvement in real wages, we have had inflation in check better. In everything you want to name, when you compare our 7 years with the Truman 7 years, Americans are doing better and they don't want to return to the policies we left behind in 1953 and we're not going to. [Cheers.] Now let me get more specific. Why will we produce progress while they will not? Why is our philosophy one that Americans should support? There isn't time to go into all of it in detail. Let me give you two or three examples. First, because we know the secret of progress in America. We know from studying American history. We know from actual practice of our philosophy and also seeing theirs in effect. What is the secret of progress? The secret of progress in this country is not what government does but what individuals do. Let me put it another way. Every time they see a problem, whether it's schools, or housing, or medical care or anything else, they have an automatic reaction. Oh they say we have no confidence in the people. They can't do this. We have no confidence in the States. They can't do this. We have no confidence in local responsibility. We've got to run over to Washington to Federal Government. Take the money from the people, send it to Washington, and they'll take care of the people. So the result is that their formula is in every instance, if you have a problem, start with the Federal Government and work down to the people. We say that if you want real progress in America, that's exactly the wrong place to start. If you want progress the way to do is to start with the American people and work up to the Federal Government. [Cheers.] Now why will ours work where theirs won't? Well look at it. Look at the situation. What is the motive power in this country? A hundred and eighty million free Americans. In other words, we tap all the resources of America. We have confidence in individuals. We want to put responsibility on them rather than take it off. So we say if individual enterprise can do it, they should do it. That's better than sending it to Washington. If the States can do it, they should do it. That's better than sending it to Washington. Washington should step in and should lead, yes, and Washington must supplement. But Washington should not do things which people would rather do themselves. Washington shouldn't spend a dollar that the people would rather spend themselves at the local level to accomplish their own ends. [Cheers.] Let's take an example that everybody in Hartford will understand. I've noticed there are a few insurance companies around here. [Laughter.] And as you've noticed, there's been a great argument about medical care in the Congress of the United States, an argument in which Mr. Kennedy is on one side and I'm on the other. Let me just state it in a word first how I feel about it. I remember the year my father died in the last election year - 1956. He had very, very serious doctor bills running over $2,000. My mother the same year had an operation. All together their doctor bills ran over $3,000. Now, they were people of modest means. It was very difficult for them to pay those bills. They did. But certainly I have seen firsthand what it means for people, older people, to have a catastrophic illness hit and then not have the insurance or the coverage that they need so that they can take care of it. So I say in this field we need a program, a program in which our older citizens are not faced with this problem, particularly those people who are not on relief, but those people who have saved their money, who are trying to take care of themselves, and then - bang - they get this terrible jolt and they are confronted with a situation where they either have to go on relief or if they could, they would like to be able to handle it another way. So I say here is a place where government has to do something. What should government do? And here's the problem. Our opponents say, "Terrible problem." We all agree on that. But they say what we'll do, we'll set up a huge government program. States will have nothing to do with it, just the Federal Government. We will compel all the people who have social security to have compulsory health insurance whether they want or not. They leave out, of course, 3 million people who need it the most over 65 who don't have social security. But they'll compel everybody, whether they want it or not, to take compulsory health insurance. And they say this is the solution. It's easy. Don't have to worry about the States. Don't have to worry about the individuals. Just take the money; set up a program. What is our answer? Our answer is to start the other way. Our answer is to start with the basic assumption that in this country, first, we've got the best medical care in the world. Let's never forget that. [Applause.] Now, second, one of the reasons we've got the best medical care in the world is that our medical profession is free and independent and it isn't working for the government. [Applause.] Third, we want to keep it the best medical care in the world. We want to give to our people. Certainly we want them to have the opportunity to have this protection but we don't want to reduce the standard of medical care. So how do wo do it? We set up a State-Federal program. We set up one which in a nutshell can be summed up this way. Where those who want health insurance and who need it are afforded the opportunity to get it, but that they can get either government insurance if they want it or private insurance if they prefer it. Second, we go further. We also say where those above 65 who ought to have health insurance, all of those are encouraged to get it. But then here's where we depart completely from our opponents. We say that if we're going to retain the high standard of medical care in this country that we want, we say we're going to do this the American way, that no one in America who does not want health insurance should be forced to have it against his will. [Cheers.] That's the difference between our programs. So you see, in every instance I could use that example. One other one. I know people say, "Well Mr. Nixon, how can you say that your programs will produce this progress and theirs won't when they're going to spend more?" And that's true. They'll spend $10 billion a year more for their programs than would ours. But you know, the American people aren't fooled by this. It's very easy for us to make promises - me, my opponent - but all the people know that we're going to pay for their promises. It isn't going to be my money and not even his money. It's going to be yours. And since it is yours, as far as the people are concerned they realize that it isn't a question of how much money you spend of your money but how you spend it. And I want to say I don't think the American people are going to buy a program that would raise their taxes and raise their prices when they can have the real progress that we will provide with the kind of programs that we have on the other side. This is the choice. And so in this whole field of progress, move with us. Move with us and there is no question but what we will not only move forward, leaving none behind, but there is also no question but that here is the way to move without buy ------ in to all of the problems of the sum of which I have described. Now there is one other point I want to discuss. We've been talking about what Americans want from government. They also want - more important even than the jobs and the medical care, all these things which we're interested in - they want to be around to enjoy it. I mean by that, as I inferred at the beginning, that the most important qualification the next President must have - is he qualified by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? Obviously I am a bit prejudiced on this. I'm going to say, however, that here today as we look at the world situation and as we look at the two tickets, there are some things that my colleague Cabot Lodge and I have to offer that the American people should consider. First, our experience. [Applause.] Now as far as that experience is concerned, we've been part of the Eisenhower administration for the last 7½ years. We've sat in the Security Council. We've sat in the Cabinet. We have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions on Quemoy and Matsu and Lebanon and the rest. And I know people say, "Well that experience, Mr. Nixon, you better watch out for that. After all, haven't you been seeing what your opponent's been saying about the record where our prestige is following? We've made mistakes, mistakes, mistakes. We've got to change our policies. We've got to move in different directions." Just let me say this. Yes, they've been criticizing the Eisenhower record and the record of this administration in the field of foreign policy. But all the criticism in the world doesn't fool the American people. The American people know what the fact is. They know that in 1953 we were at a war and they know that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got rid of one war, we've kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. [Applause.] And they want to continue that kind of leadership. Now, however, that's the past. That's experience. What about the future? Here again we see various silent criticisms coming up from our opponents. Now this is their right to say those things they think are wrong with our administration but they also have a responsibility to be correct. When they're not correct, we have a responsibility to "nail" them and that's what we're going to do. [Applause.] I think the whole attitude of our opponents toward the future was summed up the other day in New York by a statement Mr. Kennedy made on President Eisenhower, or at least referring to him. And I'll quote the statement exactly, incidentally, from his speech I'll quote it without notes. [Applause.] This is what he said. He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing, I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." You know if he'd quit talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower is doing. [Cheers.] Now he isn't doing some of the foolish things, the immature things that Mr. Kennedy has suggested. He didn't, for example, express regrets or apologize to Khrushchev for defending the United States against surprise attack. [Cheers.] He didn't for example, follow the line of Senator Kennedy and 12 other very well-intentioned but mistaken Senators who in 1955 said, look, in the Formosa Straits, at the point of a gun, we will rule out the defense of an area of freedom. President Eisenhower did not follow him on that and it's a good thing he didn't because every time you make that kind of a concession, every time you allow a blackmailer, the Communist, to get what he wants at the point of a gun, you don't get peace. You only encourage him to push you further and it's the road to war. [Cheers.] And we're not going that way. He didn't, for example, follow the suggestion Senator Kennedy repeated again, as you recall on our second television debate, when he said again, "Our policy in the Formosa Straits is wrong. President Eisenhower should negotiate so we don't have to defend these two islands." He, of course, failed to see the whole point of the matter, failed to see that the Communist objective is not two little islands, not Formosa, but the world. And the moment at the point of a gun you surrender territory, or principle, to Communists, you are going right down the road to defeat or surrender.  We talk about the fact that this is the time to extend freedom. Well the way to extend freedom, the way to have an offensive, is not to start running backwards and the American people are not going to do that whatever Senator Kennedy suggests. [Cheers and applause.] But now he says, "I do support the President." Well it's about time. [Laughter.] Let's just suggest this. Why can't we have a moratorium on any more rash, immature statesman by something that is going to encourage the Communists to attack us any place in the world on the part of Senator Kennedy? [Applause.] In other words, what we need to have is for him to start thinking before he talks. It'd be a lot better for him and for the country if we could do that. [Cheers.] But let's come to the fundamental problem. Experience. Also, we offer to you this: Both Cabot Lodge and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. You know what we will do in handling him. There's been criticism of what we have done in the past. All that I can say is this: Knowing him as we do, we are not going to be fooled. We are going to develop the policies of this country that will deal with him as he is, not as we would want him to be. [Applause.] What does this mean? In a nutshell I'll sum up. We're going to keep America the strongest in the world. Why? Because we're the guardians of peace and we must never allow an enemy of freedom to be in a position where he believes he can start something without having certainly massive destruction of his warmaking capability. Point two. We're going to keep this economy moving forward. Why? We must never rest on what we've been doing, good as it is, because America must move forward as we're in this race. And we will move forward if we stay true to the principles that have made this country great. Point three. We've got to keep the diplomacy of this country firm, firm on principle, standing for the right as he stands for the wrong, but also nonbelligerent. That means never getting down to the level of answering insult for insult, remembering that when you're right, when you have confidence in your own case, as President Eisenhower has so well demonstrated at Paris and then at the United Nations, that you maintain your dignity hut never, at the same time, giving certainly anything with regard to principle or territory. It's this, the kind of leadership that leads to peace. Oh I know so many people say, Mr. Nixon, isn't the way to peace to follow a different line. Couldn't we make this concession or that one? Mr. Khrushchev would like us better, for example, if we did apologize or if we did give him this, or that, or the other thing. The answer is that the record of dictators is the only language they understand is firmness. That's why the language of firmness, the language of strength, that's what's kept the peace for the last 7½ years. That's what'll keep it for the next 4 years. I say the American people cannot afford, they do not want, a rash, immature man changing these policies. They want ---- [Cheers drown out Mr. Nixon.] Do I tell you that we have all the answers? No. Do I tell you life is going to be easy in the sixties? No. I know the world. I've been to 55 countries. I know the Communists. They're going to stir up trouble. We're going to have trouble not only in Cuba but in Japan and all over the world. Why? Because they're going to stir them up. But the point is not whether you have troubles but how you handle them. And all that I can say in conclusion. We believe we know how to handle them. We know we're on the right side. We know that we stand for the right things. And we believe that with your support that we can give America the leadership that America and the free world needs. We ask for that support. And we ask you to go out if you believe as we do, we ask you to go out and work for us. Work for us not just as Republicans, but remembering that this cause is bigger than a party. It's as big as America. It's as big as the whole world itself. Remember, you're not just working for a man or a party. You're working for what's best for America. If you believe that and if you work with that great inspiration behind you, we'll carry Connecticut and we'll carry the Nation. Now let's go out and do the job. [Cheers.]
Senator Bush, all of the distinguished guests here on this platform, and our friends here in New Haven, I want to say first of all what a very great privilege it is for my wife, Pat, and me to be here and to have such a beautiful day and a wonderful welcome from you. [Cheers.] I want you to know, too, that we're very happy to have here those people who are our supporters. I'm also glad to see that there are some signs for my opponent. We want some people to convert. We're glad you came here too. [Cheers.] You know it's a funny thing. I saw some of the fellows carrying those signs. They looked like the same ones that were carrying Stevenson signs 4 years ago. [Cheers.] You know by this time I thought they would have graduated. [Cheers.] Incidentally, I pay these guys. I bring them around with me just to get that line in. [Laughter.] First of all, I want to say that the welcome that we have received we realize is one that comes not simply in the capacity of the candidate of the party that I represent because all of you are vitally interested in the problems of our country and for that reason, whatever we may be, Republicans, Democrats, or independents, we want to hear one of the candidates. For that I deeply appreciate your being here. The second thing that I would like to say is this day in Connecticut is a very exciting one for us because it begins the third week before the end of the campaign. And for all of those who are here, I assume that there are some from Yale University [cheers] and the other schools here, all of those of you who are going into politics I want to give you a little advice. Remember the campaign begins in the last 3 weeks because this is the period when people get more interested, this is the period when they make up their minds. You'll find more undecided voters deciding then than ever before. That's why I was so glad that our campaign in Connecticut came on the beginning of this last third week because we've had magnificent crowds in Hartford and now here. This is a great inspiration and we thank you for coming. I want to say, too, that the opportunity to be here again on the platform with our friends who are running for the House of Representatives is one that I have looked forward to and that I want to make special reference to. Tony Sadlak, of course, who has been Congressman at large for so many years and will be back as Congressman at large. I'm glad to see Tony. [Cheers and applause.] Seeley-Brown from the Second District. We're going to have him back. And then, of course, Al Cretella from this district. [Cheers.] Now I'm going to make a campaign promise. It's going to be awfully hard to keep. But Al Cretella about twice a year comes down to my office in Washington and brings me a hat. He tells me that the hatmakers up here in Connecticut believe that at least the top officials of this Government ought to wear a hat. The reason I don't wear a hat is I leave them in airplanes, in cars, and every place. But I promise to Al when we win this election I will wear a hat if you'll bring me another one. [Laughter.] Now, if I could add one other personal note. I have just noted here and I particularly want to refer to Jim Patterson, our other Congressman. He's got his group right over here. The reason I feel so strongly about Jim and most of these other fellows is that we came to the Congress together in 1946. These are fine men and I want you to know that when you vote for a President of the United States, it is essential also to give him the support in the House of Representatives that he needs. We have a splendid group from Connecticut and I commend them all to you with my whole heart as I speak to you today. [Applause.] Now, on an occasion like this, there is always the problem that the candidate has to determine those particular issues that will be of greatest interest to the people. There is always the problem of selecting those particular issues in the meeting of this sort where you're standing and where we have not too much time that will be of greatest interest to everybody concerned. I have found in traveling around the country, whether we go north, east, or west, or south, that there is one issue that the American people are more concerned about than all the rest. The people of this country, of course, want a Government under which we can have jobs at high wages. We want a Government in which, as I noted one of the signs here, we can have our taxes within reason and our prices not skyrocketing. We want a Government in which we can have good medical care, and better schools, better housing. All of these things Americans want. But we also want, above everything else, to be around to enjoy the good things that we produce. In other words, the major issue that I find unites Americans, whether you're in Hawaii, or in Maine, and this is the 46th that I have visited already in this campaign, the major issue is this: It is that the American people realize that the most important qualification of the next President and the Vice President of the United States must be, is he qualified by experience, by judgment, by background, to keep the peace, to keep it without surrender of principle or territory. This is the great issue of this campaign. [Cheers.] I want to talk to that issue. I want to relate your other problems to it and I want to do it as concisely as I can. First, you must examine me and my colleague Cabot Lodge. You must examine our opponents on the basis of our records. On this issue Cabot Lodge and I are part of the Eisenhower foreign policy record. [Cheers and applause.] For 7½ years we have sat in the Security Council; we have sat in the Cabinet. We have had the opportunity to participate in the great decisions and discussions on Quemoy and Matsu and Lebanon and others. So, therefore, you must judge us by this record. Now I know that there are those here who approve that record. I know there are those who criticize as does my opponent. [Cheers.] Let's get one thing clear. All the criticism in the world of the Eisenhower record in the field of foreign policy isn't going to fool the American people because they know what it is and they like it. [Cheers.] They know that in 1953 when Eisenhower became President we were in a war. They know that in these last 7½ years we got this Nation out of one war, we've kept her out of others, and we do have peace without surrender today [cheers] and they want to continue that kind of leadership. [Applause.] Of course that's past. There are those who say well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon, what about the fact that American prestige has been slipping. What about the fact that we have become second rate in education, and second rate in science and all those other things? What about these criticisms. I want to tell you what the answer is. As a matter of fact, I think I can sum up the criticism best in some exact words of my opponent and I will quote him from a speech he made in New York a couple of weeks ago. I'll quote him exactly without notes. [Cheers.] This is what he said.  He said, "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." [Cheers.]  Well, just let me say this. If he would stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. [Cheers.]  Now he hasn't been doing some of the things that Mr. Kennedy wants him to do. For example, he didn't apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev for defending the security of the United States. [Cheers.] He also did not draw a line in the Pacific and invite Communist attack in the Quemoy-Matsu thing and as a result we have kept peace and we've kept it without surrender in the Pacific and we're going to continue to. [Cheers.]  And also he hasn't been doing some of the things Mr. Khrushchev has been doing. He hasn't been making a fool of himself in the United Nations and we don't want him to. [Cheers.] He hasn't been trying to muscle into the Congo unilaterally as has Mr. Khrushchev. President Eisenhower has done what all Americans want him to do. He has supported the United Nations. He has worked to see that this new country and all others can retain its independence and this all Americans are proud of. Yes; he has worked for disarmament but not a phony disarmament because this Nation must never disarm until we get absolute assurance that those who threaten the peace of the world, as we do not, are also disarming at the same time. And all Americans support the President in that I'm sure. [Cheers and applause.] So much for that record.  What can you expect from my colleague and me? Here, again, not only do you know our record but you know something about the men. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We've had the opportunity of sitting down at the conference table with him. We have had the opportunity to know how to handle his insults and his boasts. I know that there are criticisms of how we've both done it. I won't say anything about my own record but I can about my running mate's in this respect. And I will say that I don't know of any man in the world today who has had more experience or who could have done a better job of fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than our candidate for Vice President at the United Nations, Henry Cabot Lodge. [Cheers and applause.]  Now why is this important? Because in our administration we shall be a team. We shall work, as I indicated in my speech in Los Angeles last week, to strengthen the United Nations, to strengthen the Organization of American States, to develop new instruments of peace and instruments of freedom which will do that. Which will extend freedom throughout the world, not just hold the line, but extend it. And this is a time and a job that requires not only the devotion of the President, not only the leadership of the President, but it requires also the full cooperation of a vice presidential candidate who is experienced, who knows, who understands what peace demands. And I say that on this score you know what Cabot Lodge and I will do. And we submit our record and we're proud of it in this respect as we come to the American people. [Applause.] Now what do yon know we will do Because we know Mr. Khrushchev, because we know the men that threaten the peace of the world, we will first be sure that America is always the strongest Nation in the world militarily. Now America, despite what you have heard to the contrary, is the strongest Nation today and its' going to continue to stay it under our leadership. [Cheers and applause.] Why do we have to have this strength? Some of my friends who have a great concern for peace, as everybody in this audience does, say Mr. Nixon, when you speak about a strong America militarily, when you speak about building up our strength, isn't that the antithesis of peace? And my friends, when you're dealing with dictators whose objective is to conquer the world by any means if necessary, including war, one of the principles of peace is that you must have more strength than they have. So those of us who stand for strength, those of us who will lead the American people to keep this strength, I say this is the way to peace and not the way to war. Second point. With that military strength we must combine it with firmness at the diplomatic table. And here again there are well-intentioned people, people who suggest couldn't we get along better with the Communists if we were to make a concession here and there. Wouldn't have Mr. Khrushchev, for example, liked us a little better and maybe he would have gone on with the conference in Paris if President Eisenhower had regretted those incidents. The answer is no. The answer is that Khrushchev and the Communists, and never forget this, do not react like Mr. Adenauer. They don't act like Mr. De Gaulle, or Mr. Macmillan, or Mr. Nehru. These men are men who are fanatical, ruthless; people who have only one ambition and that is our destruction. And, therefore, to keep the peace of the world we not only have to be strong, we have to be firm. We must never make a concession without getting one in return. That is why I say that America today must continue the firmness that we have, no belligerence. That means that we don't want to answer insult with insult. It means, however, that we stand firmly for the right, as he does for the wrong. It means that we must never make the mistake, for example, of surrendering territory at the point of a gun with the hope that it will bring peace because the record of dealing with dictators, whether its Hitler or whether it's Mao Tse-tung or whether it's Khrushchev is that when you surrender territory or even suggest it, it does not bring peace; it only encourages them to ask for more. So I say America must continue the kind of firmness we've had and Cabot Lodge and I will do that and you know it. That's why we believe we deserve the support of the American people. [Cheers.] Now let me come to the key point. If we have this firmness, if we have this military strength, we still then, you must remember, have only a stalemate, a stalemate in which we are strong and our strength restrains those who would threaten the peace of the world. For 7½ years we have been able to hold our position. But, my friends, in the years ahead that will not be enough because the world is changing, because we move into a new phase. We've already been in it. But we're moving into an intensified phase of it in which the enemies of freedom are attempting to extend their domination of the world without war, by nonmilitary means. Let me describe it in a word. I remember when Khrushchev saw me in Moscow he said, "Mr. Nixon, we do not have to win the world by war. We're going to win it without war. We're going to beat you economically." He said, "I realize that we're behind you now economically but," he said, "you know something? We're moving faster than you are. Our system is better than yours is. We're going to pass you in about 7 years. You know what I'm going to do when we go by? I'm going to wave and say come along, follow us. Do as I do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind." So there is the challenge. He has made it over and over again when he was in the United States. And I want to tell you what the answer of America is to the challenge. The answer: Mr. Khrushchev, the Communists will never pass us provided we remain true to the principles that have made America the strongest Nation in the world today economically. This we must always remember. [Cheers and applause.] Let me spell that out if I could for a moment. You've been hearing that the United States is standing still economically for the last 7½ years. All that I can say, my friends, that anybody that says the United States has been standing still hasn't been traveling through the United States; he's been traveling through some other country. I can assure you of that. [Cheers.] Because as we move through America, we have found more progress, more houses built, more schools built, better jobs, more increase in real wages in these 7 years than in any period in history and infinitely more in the 7 years that we left behind. I say the American people do not want to go back to the policies we left economically 7 years ago. We want to build on the policies we presently have which will build a greater America. Let's take an example. New Haven is famous throughout the country because you have a great number of urban renewal projects. You hear about these renewal projects. Let me say this. Twice as many have been built in this administration as in its predecessor. So if you want to move America forward, the way to do is not to go back to the retread policies that my opponent offers, but to go forward with the new leadership that we offer for America in the economic field which will build America. [Cheers.] How do our policies differ from theirs? I can explain it in a nutshell. They say that the way to progress in every instance is to go to the Federal Government, turn over the problem to them. They lack confidence in individuals. They lack confidence in the States and local government. But they say Washington will do it. There's one catch. In order for Washington to do it they say turn over your money to the Federal Government. And let me say this. The reason that their programs will not work is that by putting this emphasis on what Washington does, they discourage what individuals do. And, my friends, the way to progress in America is not to do as they do: start at the Federal Government and work down to the people. The way to progress is to do as we do and that's to start with 180 million free Americans and work up to the Federal Government. [Cheers.] And it's because our policies will stimulate individual enterprise, because it will produce more jobs. It is for these reasons that we will produce the progress that they talk about but that we have always performed about. So in this instance we say keep ahead, but the way to keep ahead is to turn our way and not theirs. Now the last point that I would make is the most important of all. I make it particularly because there are a great number of students here. I make it because the legacy that you have is one that you must carry forward because this struggle is one that will not be ended even in my time. You will carry it forward in yours. And America must have the maturity, it must have the stamina, and its young people must, above everything else, have the vision and the dedication and the faith that will outlast and outwork the enemies of freedom. Let me tell you what I'm talking about. I mentioned economic strength. I mentioned military strength. I mentioned diplomatic firmness. My friends, what will decide this struggle for the world will not be this kind of strength but the strength of our ideals. And in that connection let me tell you what happened when I was in Poland with my wife a year ago. I remember the crowds in the streets - a quarter of a million of them. I remember that there had been no attempt of the government to get them out. In fact, there were attempts to discourage them. And yet here they were, cheering and shouting at the tops of their voices in a Communist country, "Niech Zyje America" - long live America. Here they were throwing flowers into our car. Here they were, as the car stopped I saw older people crying. I saw them with tears coming down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily. Not because America was strong economically. But because America stood for ideals and has always stood for ideals that have caught the imagination of the world. Our faith in God. Our belief in the dignity of all men. Our belief that the rights of men to freedom, to equality of opportunity comes from God, that they do not come from men and cannot be taken away by men. Our belief that every nation has a right to be independent. These are the things that America stands for. These are the ideals that the American President, and the American Vice President, and the American Secretary of State, must carry to all the world. These ideals cannot come just from a President talking about them. They must come from the people of our country and they must come from the schools. The must come from the homes. They must come from the churches of America. So I say to this great audience, whatever your political persuasion, keep the moral and spiritual strength of America strong. Keep our faith of our ideals strong. See that our young people recognize the tremendous vitality of this Nation and that America stands for something other than gross atheistic materialism. If you do that, we will win the struggle for the world and we will win it because we're on the right side. So, my friends, this is our case. If you believe in it, if you believe that ours is the leadership that America needs, then go out and work for us, remembering that you're working not just for men, not just for party, but you're working for what is best for America and that is what we all want. Thank you. [Cheers; applause.]
Thank you very much. Mr. Campbell all of the distinguished guests on the platform, our friends here in Florida, in Jacksonville, we want to thank you for coming out in such great numbers to welcome us on our first trip to Florida since the nominating conventions, and I can only say if this is any indication of the support we have, we're going to carry Florida again in 1960, as we did in 1952 and 1956. Now, you have been standing here, and I know that certainly jammed in as you are that I should not talk too long, but I have some things I want to say. I want to say them very directly. I want to say them very forcefully, because I couldn't agree more with the man who just introduced me so eloquently as to the tremendous importance of this election. I am very proud of my party. I am very proud of the candidates of our party in this State who are on this platform with me, but I say to you today, as the man who introduced me said a moment ago, that the requirements for leadership in America at this time are more important than my party or the other party. What must count is what is best for America - and that's the way we should vote in this election this time. I have noted an increasing tendency on the part of our opponents simply to base their case on one theme, and that is: Vote the party. Vote the party. Vote the party. Vote as your fathers did. Vote as your grandfathers did, but don't think of the man. Think of the party. My friends, that isn't enough for a Republican to do. That isn't enough for a Democrat to do. I say today that each and every one of us must not vote simply by the patterns of the past. You must not vote by the labels that men wear. You must vote as your own conscience indicates what America needs in the way of leadership today, and I say that at this time that what we stand for, what I stand for, what my colleague, Cabot Lodge, stands for, what our platform stands for is more in accord with the great traditions of the man that this city was named after, Andrew Jackson, than what was adopted in Los Angeles as the Democratic platform - and I think all of you will agree with that. I know that you will hear over and over again party loyalty requires Democrats to vote only for the Democratic candidate. I say that a man or a woman who is truly loyal to the Democratic Party, to the great principles of Jackson and Jefferson and Wilson cannot vote for that platform or for the men who run on that platform. They will vote for us because we stand for those principles, and they do not. And, now, if I could put this in terms of the great issue of our time: What is the most important issue? Let me tell you. It is the survival of this Nation. It is the future of these young people as well as ourselves. It is the future of the world, and everything else is insignificant compared to that, because we can have everything else - the better jobs, the best medical care, the best housing in the world - and it won't make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. And, so, I say the first test for the next President of the United States is this: Is he qualified, by background, by experience, by judgment, to keep the peace, but, more than that, to keep the peace without surrender, without surrender of principle or territory anywhere in the world. Now, my friends, obviously I present my case to you, but I also ask you to judge me on my record as you judge my opponent. I ask you to consider what I say as you consider what he says, and then you determine: Which of the two men for President, which of the two men for Vice President, have the kind of experience, have the kind of a program, not that just a party needs - that isn't enough - but the kind of experience and program that America needs, and even that isn't enough - that the cause of freedom needs in this critical period, and I begin with this. You must consider our experience. What is that experience? Well, for 7½ years Cabot Ledge and I have sat with the President in the Security Council, in the Cabinet. We have participated in the making of the great decisions on Quemoy and Matsu and Lebanon, the others during this last 7½ years in the field of foreign policy. Now, a lot of people will not agree with what I am about to say. I think that record is a good one. Others say that it's a bad one, but I'll say this: That all this political criticism you have been hearing about President Eisenhower's leadership in the field of foreign policy - and you've heard what they have said. Oh, we haven't had the initiative. We've been losing our prestige. He's done this wrong and he's done that wrong, and why doesn't he do this, that, or the other thing? Listen, my friends, the American people aren't dumb. The American people aren't going to be fooled by a lot of double talk. Democrats and Republicans alike who overwhelmingly voted for President Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956 know that he produced the goods, and they know that in 1953, when we came in, we were in a war that wasn't being ended and there was no end in it. And what has happened in those 7 years? Well, we got America out of one war. We've kept her out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today, and we want to continue the leadership that brought that peace - and that is what we will do. But then there are those who will say, "Well, now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. What about the present? What about America's strength? What about these charges that our economy has been standing still? What about the charges that America has been standing still? We're a second-rate nation," they say, "in the field of economics. We're a second-rate nation and will become so militarily. We're a second-rate nation in the field of science and in education." All these things you have heard talked up and down the line. Well, just let me say this, my friends: Anybody who says America has been standing still for the last 7½ years hasn't been traveling in America. He's been traveling in some other country, because I've seen America, and you in Florida know how America has grown. As a matter of fact, I think it really got into its most ridiculous phase the other day. My opponent was speaking up in New York State. I was there just this morning, incidentally, and for you lucky Floridians I want you to know in Buffalo this morning it was a cold 45o - and we're glad to be in this sunshine down here in Jacksonville with you. But in upper New York, my opponent made this amazing statement, one actually that he ought to be ashamed of and he should apologize to the American people for making, and this is what he said: He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper" - and, incidentally, I'll quote him without notes - he said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing." He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Castro is doing." He said, "I want to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me tell you something, my friends. If he'd just stop talking long enough, and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, I'll tell you, he hasn't been doing some of the things that my opponent would ask. He hasn't been apologizing or expressing regrets to Khrushchev, and we don't want him to, and I'm not going to. Also, he hasn't been abandoning at gunpoint some islands of freedom in the Pacific which would invite war and invite attack, and we're proud of President Eisenhower for not following my opponent's advise on that score, too, because America certainly learned its lesson in Korea - that when you draw a line and say we will only defend this particular point, it is not an invitation to peace. It is certainly an invitation and an assurance of war, and, it's the firm policy that we've had that the American people like. It's that firm policy that we will continue. And it's true that President Eisenhower hasn't been acting like Mr. Khrushchev. But, thank God, he hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations, either, and we don't want him to. So, I say to all of you today - I say - Yes, there are grave problems in the world. I say, yes, we have not and will not have solved all those problems in my lifetime, but I say this: The question is not when the Communists are on the loose whether you have problems. The question is how you handle them. The question is whether you have the experience and the judgment. The question is whether you're weak, whether you are naive or whether you're firm and strong and know what you're doing. And now let's look at our qualifications in that respect. Both Cabot Lodge and I know who our enemies are abroad. We know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. We have dealt with him, and I say to him: We haven't been fooled by him in the past, and we won't be fooled bv him in the future, and that's what America needs. That's what we need to keep the strength that we need. Now, what does that mean we will do? And these are the things we will do if you give us the opportunity. First, we will see that America continues to be what she is today - the strongest Nation in the world. We will ask Americans to pay whatever is necessary to maintain that strength, because, my friends, as long as we are the strongest, that means the enemies of peace will no dare start anything any place in the world, and this is what I pledge to you: America will continue to be strong, and we will increase our strength as necessary to meet whatever threat there is abroad. Second, we will see that our diplomacy is firm, firm oil principle, firm without being belligerent, because - let me say this - you don't have to get down to the level of Mr. Khrushchev. You maintain your dignity as President Eisenhower has, but you also never give in on principle. We stand firmly for the right, as he stands firmly for the wrong, and that is the way to assure peace and to assure the victory of freedom throughout the world. And then the next point I would make is this: In addition to this firmness, in addition to this strength militarily, America must move forward economically, and by moving forward economically, what I mean is this: Mr. Khrushchev, I remember, when we were in Moscow, made this statement to me. He said, "Mr. Nixon," he said, "I'll admit you're ahead of us economically at the present time, but," he said, "you know, we're moving faster than you are." He said, "Our system is better than yours is, and," he said, "we're going to catch you in 7 years, and" he said, "when we catch you, I'm going to wave to you and say, 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or you will fall hopelessly behind."' You know what the answer is? The answer is: He won't catch us, not in 7 years, not in 70, if we quit thinking of America as second rate and act like a first-rate country at home and abroad - and that's what we're going to do. But I'll tell you this. There is a danger that he will catch us if we depart from the principles that have made America great, if we follow the advice of our opponents and say every time there is a problem: "Turn it over to the Federal Government. Weaken the individuals. Weaken the States. The Federal Government is the answer." There is a danger he will catch us if we adopt huge new programs which will raise our taxes, raise our prices and sap the energies of 180 million Americans. There is danger that he will catch us if in our economic principles we do not follow the policy that the way to greatness in America is not through strengthening the Federal Government, but through strengthening the will and the determination of 180 million free Americans. That's the way to greatness in this country. And, so, I ask you: You've been listening to me. What's this doctrine that I speak? This is bigger than the Republican Party. It's as big as America, itself These are the words of Jackson. This is the philosophy of Jefferson. This is also the philosophy of Lincoln. This, my friends, is what America needs today, and those apostles of gloom and doom and defeat and retreat who say, "Turn everything over to the Federal Government; weaken the States; weaken the individual" - that's the wrong road, and America is not going to take it. We're not going to go back to what we left in 1953, and that's all they offer, and we're not going to do it. That's why we're going to vote our way this year, in the year 1960. And, so, I say to you: If you vote for us, we will be firm for the right. We believe that firmness will assure the peace, and we believe weakness would lead to war, weakness militarily or diplomatically. We will also keep America strong at home militarily, keep her strong economically, moving America ahead with all Americans moving together, because none must be left behind, and, in addition to that, above everything else, we will stand in the high councils of this world for the things Americans most deeply believe in, for the ideals that are our great advantage in this struggle, and what are they? These ideals do not come from a leader - he can only talk about them - but they come from people. These are the ideals that caused a quarter of a million Poles a year ago in the streets of Warsaw to greet my wife and me in that Communist country with the greatest demonstration of affection perhaps ever accorded a visitor. They were shouting - they were cheering - "Niech Zyje America" - "Long Live America" - and as they stopped the car, it stopped in the middle of the town time after time - and I looked in their faces, grown men and women, over half of them, crying, tears streaming down their cheeks. Why? Not because America was strong militarily. They knew that. Not because we were rich economically, but because we stand for something more than that. We stand for ideals, bigger than my party and bigger than yours, if it's the other party, as big as the whole world, itself - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of men; our belief that the rights that men have to equality come from God and not from men, and, therefore, cannot be taken away from men; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent and all people have a right to be free. These things America came into the world to preserve. These things it is America's destiny now to extend, because it isn't enough to hold the line against communism. We must wage a great offensive for victory without war, and we believe, my colleague and I, that we have the background, that we know the problem, and, with your help, that we can lead America because your help is necessary. This kind of strength, the strength of our ideals, must come from you. It comes from the homes, from the churches, from the schools of America. And, so, I say: Keep this country strong at home. Keep its ideals strong. See that these young people know what a privilege it is to be an American. See that they're proud of this country. See that they're willing to stand for our system as the Communists, unfortunately, in some instances, are willing to stand for theirs. And if you do that, we will win. We will win this struggle for freedom, and it will be a better world for our children and for ourselves, but also for children and for people all over the world. This is our mission, and it is this cause that I ask you to work in. Don't work for it just because you like us as men, if that is the case, not just because you like our party, if that's the case; but if you believe that what we stand for is what America needs, if you believe that ours is the leadership that America and the free world needs, then, my friends, 3 weeks remain. Go out and work for this cause, work for it in this State of Florida. Spread the word throughout this State, and if you work, as you really can, if you believe as deeply as we believe, we will win, and it will be a victory not just for a man, not just for a party, but for America, itself, and that is what we all want. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Commander McKneally, all the distinguished guests on the platform, my comrades of the American Legion and guests of this organization: It is indeed a very great privilege for both my wife and for me to be with you today, and particularly since this happens to be the seventh time that I have been invited to address the national convention of the American Legion. The first was when I was a Senator from the State of California, and six times as Vice President of the United States. I have always enjoyed these appearances from the standpoint of having an opportunity to address such a distinguished audience of opinion leaders in this Nation. What I have not had the opportunity to do is to participate more in the fun of the Legion which I know goes on at least in some hours of the night if you have the opportunity to be in it, and, as a Californian, I must admit you have very good weather here in Florida today. But, in any event, I will always remember those appearances. I will remember the graciousness with which I have been received. I will remember the courtesy with which the audiences have listened to what I have had to say, and, speaking now for the last time as Vice President, I will only say this: Whether it is in an official capacity or an unofficial capacity, I am coming back to a convention of the American Legion next year. Each of those 7 years, those of you who have heard me have noted I have spoken on the same subject, and variations of it. That subject is the one closest to the hearts of the people of America, but particularly to those who have participated in the wars in which this Nation has been involved. It is a subject of survival of the Nation in all its aspects, and during those 7 years I have had an opportunity to trace the developments of U.S. foreign policy, our policies as far as defense is concerned, our policies economically, morally, and spiritually, as they affect the struggle for the world. And, so, today I again want to speak on that subject, because there is none that is more important today, none more important to the Legion, none more important to America and certainly none more important to the world. We have heard a great deal about what has happened in the last 8 years of the administration of which I have been a part. I will recognize that we have had great problems, problems to solve and problems that were thrust upon us because of the aggressive tendencies of the international Communist movement. This is not the time to discuss those problems from a political standpoint. I have always refused to do so. I have always declined to do so, and I will decline to do so this year, when the stakes are very high, but it is the time to speak up for America - and that I'll do today as I speak to the American Legion. Over these past 7 years there have been some accomplishments as far as the cause of freedom is concerned. Seven and a half years ago we were in a war in Korea, a war that we were not allowed to win, a war that was tying down and killing thousands of American boys. Under the leadership of President Eisenhower, whatever criticism may otherwise be directed toward him, that war has been ended. We have avoided other wars, and America stands today as the proud champion of the freedom-loving people of the world, and we will continue to be in that position. During those 7 years, I have had the opportunity to see much of the world. Fifty-four countries I have visited, and in that period I have also had the opportunity to see the Iron Curtain, both sides, and to see the developments with which we will be confronted in the years ahead, and I begin today by stating what should be obvious to every American regardless of what his political persuasions may be, that whatever we may think of American strength today - and I happen to know, and Mr. Khrushchev knows that we're the strongest nation in the world - we're going to continue to stay that way. But whatever we may think of our strength today, America can never stand pat. We can never stand pat on that strength because we are confronted with an enemy, ruthless, fanatical, and as that enemy is dedicated to conquering the world by any means, including the use of force, as he constantly steps up his preparedness in order to Use that force to extend power throughout the world, it is essential that America increase its strength; and I want to say to you, that there is no doubt in my mind but that the American people will support the necessary steps - and there will be necessary steps - which will increase America's strength, increase it in the areas where there have been new breakthroughs technologically, increase it in areas so that America's deterrent will be one that will be absolute and unattackable, increase it in the areas with which we are all aware in which the Soviet Union has been making strides, so that America, whether it is a small war or a big war, will have the ultimate power that no one, Mr. Khrushchev, Mr. Mao Tse-tung, or any other enemy of peace, will dare start anything against the United States. That strength we must maintain. Why? Not because we are for war, because we are not; because we are for peace, because we are the guardians of peace, and because it is essential that as guardians of peace, America must have strength that will discourage any of those who would threaten the peace of the world - and I can assure you that decisions which will be made if I have the opportunity to make them, will be ones that will always put the security of America first. That must come before any other consideration, and there will never be a dollar sign on what Americans will be able to do in the field of protecting the defense of this country. Now, let's turn from that area of strength, absolutely essential if we are to contain communism and extend freedom throughout the world - and both these objectives must be ours. We must accompany that military strength at the level at which I have described it with diplomatic strength, diplomatic firmness. I want to explain that in terms of examples today because it seems to me there has been a great lack of understanding in recent months, and, for that matter in recent years, as to why the United States has followed the line that it has diplomatically. People have often spoken to me and they have said, "Why can't we be more flexible in our dealings on disarmament? Why can't we find a bold new program in this area which will make it possible for the Soviet Union to agree?" And the answer is, of course, that the United States has gone the extra mile in disarmament time and time again. The answer is that the reason the Soviet Union has not agreed is that they do not want apparently to disarm unless we give up the right to inspection. I say that the United States must continue to insist on that line. They can call it rigid. They can call it inflexible, but it is rigidity and inflexibility in the right, and that's what we must do, because America must never disarm unless we are sure the Soviet Union is doing likewise at the same time. And now if I could turn to the whole area of diplomatic policy. Firmness is necessary, without belligerence. That has been our philosophy for the last 8 years, and it is, I believe, the only philosophy that will work where the men in the Kremlin are concerned. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I have sat opposite the conference table with him. He is not an easy man to deal with, but you do know this: That if you make a concession to him without getting one in return, whenever you show any weakness at the diplomatic table, it is not something that will make him treat you better. It is something that will make him treat you worse. It's an invitation to disaster, and we must never engage in that kind of dealings where Mr. Khrushchev is concerned. And what's true of Mr. Khrushchev is true of all the Communist leaders. It is true of Communists in this country. I noted that immediately before I came on the platform an award was given to the Hearst newspapers for their support of the campaign in this country against those who would work in the interests of a foreign government. I have been through that campaign. I recall the lonely days of the Hiss case, when among the very few people in this country who were supporting what we were trying to do were the American Legion and the Hearst newspapers, and I thank you both for standing by us at that time. Now, fortunately, most Americans, virtually all, recognize the danger from within as being the same as the danger from without; but looking to the danger from without, looking at the Communists in other parts of the world, why is it that the administration has taken the position that it has in the Formosa Straits? I have been asked that time and again. People concerned about peace have said: "Mr. Nixon, why is it that we are concerned about a couple of little islands in the Pacific, a couple of worthless rocks? Why is it that we're concerned about these little islands, particularly when there are only 50,000 people that live on them? Why, in other words, should we become involved in any kind of activity with regard to these islands, because they are not worth a war?" It has been said: "It would be the wrong war, the wrong place, and the wrong time." The answer to that is, What is a right war and the right place and the right time? But beyond that might I say this: We have history to look to here. Whenever you deal with a dictator, you must never abandon people or territory at the point of a gun, because if you do it never satisfies him. It only whets his appetite, and it leads to war and not to peace. We learned it with Hitler, and we will learn it now. You recall the same arguments. Why die for Danzig, the Sudetenland, Austria, all the rest ? - that terrible trail which led finally to the point where Hitler made a demand that we could not resist and where we had to go to war? How much better it would have been if at the first instance we had said, "You will not get what you want by reason of gunpoint, because we realize that if you do that you will be able to blackmail us again." And that is the way the dictators work. And then came the Korean campaign. I am sure that those who announced and drew a line outside of Korea and said Korea was outside the defense zone of the United States in January of 1950 thought this meant we would have no war in Korea; we wouldn't get into a battle about that lonely peninsula because we had drawn a line. Yet what happened? The Communists, this time the Chinese Communists, took us at our word. They marched in. We had to go in, and you know the rest - the Korean war, with all the troubles and terrible tragedies it brought to the American people and to the people of the United Nations who fought in it. Certainly we learned there that where a Communist dictator is concerned, just as where a Nazi dictator is concerned, that you cannot draw a line and say, "this area of freedom we exclude," because this does not satisfy him. It only encourages him to push you again, and the next time he pushes you, you will have to respond. And so that is the reason the President, a man who has seen a lot of war and who loves peace the more for it - that's the reason why the President has said, we will not draw a line in the Pacific excluding the islands of Quemoy and Matsu. We will not do it because these islands are free. We will not do it because we realize that an attack on these islands, if we are to take the Communists at their word, will be an attack on an ally of ours, Formosa, and also because the President knows, as all Americans must know now, that if we draw such a line it will not satisfy the Chinese Communists. It will encourage them to be more belligerent than they are. And so I say to you that it would be easy to say that there's an easy way out in dealing with the Communists. Give them a little here; draw a line here; do this or that or the other thing. But my friends, the only way to handle dictators is to be firm with them because the road of retreat is paved with good intentions, and the road to war also. We have learned our lesson in Korea. We've learned it in dealing with Hitler, and we're not going to make that mistake again certainly if I have anything to do about it in these next years. Now I would like to turn to a related subject, the subject of our relations with Communist China. Here again we have well-intentioned people in this country who suggest "Why can't we find a formula by which this country of over 600 million people can be brought into the community of nations?" And the line goes something like this: "If we got Communist China into the United Nations, then they might develop along more civilized terms." Well, first of all, let me say the United Nations was not set up to be a reformatory - and that's a good answer to that. But, secondly, I should also point to the effect the United Nations has had on the conduct of the Soviet Union, which got in because it was a charter member. Certainly it has not had too much effect in making them abide by the rules of the game. But beyond that, let's look at the suggestions that have been made, and here again we can get some guidance to the future. Two weeks ago it was suggested that we should change our policy toward Communist China and that we'd make a trade. We would trade our support - we would give them support for admission to the United Nations - for a guarantee by them that Formosa, our ally, would be free. Now of course, as all of you can quickly see, that's one horse for one rabbit. Formosa is already free, and all we would be doing would be taking a worthless guarantee from a government which has certainly never shown it intends to keep any guarantee of that type. And then last Sunday another suggestion was made, this time again with the best of intentions, along these lines - that U.N. membership for Red China could be considered if - now listen carefully - if they would renounce their official foreign policy of belief in the inevitability and the desirability of war and if they would disallow hostility to the United Nations. Now this is naive in the extreme because it ignores something else. When are we going to learn that it isn't what the Communists say but what they do that counts. Of course they will say, "if we say that's the price of admission, they will renounce wars as instruments of international policy. Of course, they will abide by the rules of the United Nations." But look at the deeds of the Chinese Communist government. That's why we oppose their recognition. That's why we oppose their admission to the United Nations. Let me list them for you: Aggression in Korea; today an open contempt for United Nations resolutions; continued violence against a member of the United Nations, free China today; ruthless seizure of Tibet, a rule of force and genocide there; today military raids against India and Nepal, and illegal and unprincipled imprisonment of American civilians, which we have been objecting to and which they will do nothing about. I say today that to seat a regime with this record of gangsterism, regardless of what they said about their good intentions in the future, would make a mockery of the peaceful purposes of the United Nations to which we belong. In other words, before the United States can consider United Nations membership for an international outlaw, what it must do is purge itself of its offenses against world law and against the principles of civilized behavior, as well as against the United Nations - and I want to announce here today what I think the next President of the United States must do with regard to this particular problem. I believe this matter is so fundamental to decency in world affairs that until Red China has proved her adherence to these standards by her deeds and not just by her words, the next President should consider a veto, which we have never used, to be fully justified by the United States in the National Security Council - a veto of any effort to admit a nation that does not comply, as Red China does not comply. And now I want to turn to one other subject at hand, much closer, the problem of Cuba, a very difficult problem. People have often said, "Mr. Nixon, why can't we get rid of Castro?" The answer is that the United States has the military power to get rid of Castro tomorrow or the next day or any day that we choose. The answer, of course, is that the United States with its great power must use it wisely. We must use it in a way that will not destroy our moral influence in the world. The United States cannot do and would never do what Mr. Khrushchev did in Hungary. We are not going to make 5 million innocent Cubans, who are the victims of Castro 5 demagoguery, the victims also of what we might do if we were to move in with the kind of force that some have suggested. What can we do then? We've been patient. I'll tell you why we've been patient. It's because we need and want the support of all of our Latin American friends in South America for our position, and it has been developing. We find in the San Jose and Bogota conferences more and more support for our position. More and more support against the Communist position has developed. In the meantime, however, as our policy of patience has gone ahead, we have found that the provocations have been intensified. The Cuban Government just recently has acted to reduce drastically formal trade with the United States. Unpaid bills of more than $150 million have been piled up as a result of Cuban failure to pay for imports from us. This is just one of many items that I could list today. And I say to you today that in the affairs of nations, just as in the affairs of individuals, there comes a time when patience, which we have been displaying, is no longer a virtue - and that time is at hand as far as our dealings with Castro and his government are concerned. You will recall that last July we acted to safeguard our future sugar supplies by reducing the share allotted to Cuba. Now we must take further action to protect the interests of the United States and of our friendly sister Republics in the hemisphere. Because of Communist penetration, the Castro regime has now exposed itself within the Western Hemisphere as an intolerable cancer. It will endlessly fester until we and the other freedom-loving nations in the Western hemisphere move and do so promptly and authoritatively, to prevent further Soviet penetration. What must we do? I say that oar goal must be to quarantine the Castro regime in the Americas. Now there are a number of steps which can be taken to accomplish this and that are planned. While this process goes forward, we will very promptly take the strongest possible economic measures to counter the economic banditry being practiced by this regime against our country and our citizens. So much for specific examples. If I could sum up, in a word if we want to keep the peace, keep it without surrender, it is essential that America be the strongest Nation in the world militarily - and certainly there will be no disagreement in this audience or any American audience on the necessity of what we must do and how much we are willing to sacrifice to do it. Second, we must accompany that strength with diplomatic firmness, not with a naive attitude that the Communist leaders will react like the leaders of the free world, because they don't. We must recognize them for what they are - they are bent on world conquest and our policies must be developed accordingly. If we have these two programs going together we shall hold the line, hold the line against the Communist expansion. But that alone is not enough. The time has come now to expand freedom, not simply to contain communism, not simply to defend the free world against communism, but to extend freedom throughout the world - and this requires more than military strength. It requires more than diplomatic firmness. It requires economic strength, which we must continue to develop in this country and which I am sure the American people will be able to continue to develop if they are given the chance by the Government. But it also requires a dedication to American ideals - not just by a President, but by the American people. It has very truly been said that this is a time for greatness as far as the leadership of America is concerned. Let me give you in this last appearance as Vice President before the American Legion my own philosophy with regard to what makes a great leader in America. Greatness in a President is not something that is the result of his ambition. It is not something that is written on a campaign poster. Greatness in a leader comes from the people that he represents - and our great Presidents - some Democrats, some Republican - have been great to the extent that they have represented the highest ideals, the greatest moral and spiritual strength of the people themselves. In other words, the next President of the United States can lead greatly and will be great only to the extent that the American people are great. What I am trying to say is this: As you have heard over and over again, the battle for the world will be decided probably in the non military area. It will be decided in the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. It will be decided certainly by what our President and our Vice President and our Secretary of State say in the world councils, but it will be decided in our favor only if a President is able to speak for a nation that is strong morally an spiritually - and that kind of strength must come from the homes, it must come from the schools, it must come from the churches of America. America must be an example for all the world to see, and that's why I say you, the American Legion, as leaders of your community, can render tremendous service. See that our young people realize what a privilege it is to be a citizen of this country. See that they realize what freedom means. See that they realize certainly that in America we have some other destinies than simply to keep what we have, that America came into the world 180 years ago not just to preserve freedom for ourselves, but we came into the world to extend it to all mankind. That was true then; at the time of the American Revolution. It is even truer today, when America has the power morally, spiritually, economically, and militarily to be heard and seen and felt in world councils. But again that comes back to you. See that the President of the United States can represent a united America. See, for example, in a very difficult field - and I mention it because it is difficult and because the Legion has been very forthright in meeting difficult problems - that we make progress in the difficult area of human rights so that a man like Khrushchev, who has enslaved millions and who slaughtered thousands in the streets of Budapest, cannot again come to this country and point a finger at us and say "You deny human rights." Let's see that we make the progress that will deny this to him. My friends, if you develop this kind of strength in America, we will win. We will win the struggle for freedom, and we will win it because we are on the right side. How do I know? I have seen what moral strength means. Oh, I know you will hear people say, "What does this matter with a man like Khrushchev or Mao Tse-tung?" The tyrants have always underestimated it, and when my wife and I visited Poland a year ago we saw that they did. A quarter of a million Poles were on the streets of Warsaw on a Sunday afternoon, cheering - "Niech Zyje America", "Long Live America" - shouting at the tops of their voices - and, when the cars stopped in the middle of the streets, throwing hundreds of bouquets into our cars, I looked into their faces, and over half of them, grown men and women, were crying, tears streaming down their cheeks. Now, why? Not because we were strong militarily - they knew that - or rich economically - they knew that - Khrushchev had bragged of that kind of strength; he had been there 2 weeks before - but because they knew what you know and what I know - that America stands for more than that - that we stand for the freedom of all men; that we stand for faith in God, for belief that the rights that men have come from God and not from men and cannot be taken away by men. These are the things that America stands for, and the next President of the United States, whoever he is, with a united America, confident of its strength, confident of its faith, will be able to lead the forces of freedom to victory without war. Thank you.
Congressman Cramer, all the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this great audience here in St. Petersburg, at Al Lang Field: I want you to know the reception we had today in Tampa, the motorcade through the city of St. Petersburg, and now this record audience here at the ball park can mean only one thing: that this county is going to be bigger and better for our ticket in 1960, and this county will furnish the margin for carrying the State of Florida in 1960 for our ticket. It certainly, I can assure you, is a most inspiring occasion for Pat, my wife, and me to be here to see some of you who have taken the time and trouble to come out to hear us. I remember, as a matter of fact, Bill, when we were here in 1956, we brought a little California rain with us, but tonight it's Florida weather, and we're grateful for that, too. This is particularly a special occasion for us because, as you know, the election will be 3 weeks from today. Consequently, this is a tremendously important 3 weeks, because this is the period that the election is usually decided. And I want to tell all of you here today that I am immensely proud of those running on the Republican ticket on this platform with me, Bill Cramer, who has been my friend and associate in the House of Representatives. I give them all the support that I can, and I ask your support for them. And I say to you that here in this county you have started something, something that will be good for this district, something that will be good for the State of Florida, for the whole South and for America. You have shown that it is possible to have a two-party system, and what you do will change the whole character for politics for the good in Florida and in the South, and we ask you to continue to work for a two-party system in this State. I'm sure that the many Democrats who are here would agree with what I have said, because I have found in campaigning through some States of the South, the sentiment on the part of Democrats, as well as Republicans, is that it is essential that the people have a choice, and here you do have a choice, and we intend to see that you continue to have a choice in the years ahead, with your assistance.  Now, if I could turn to some of the great issues that confront us in this campaign, one of the problems of a candidate is always to select those issues of greatest concern and of greatest interest to the people who come out and listen to him, but I have found in traveling throughout America - and this is the 47th State I have visited - I have only 3 to go to make 50 States, a record for a presidential candidate - I have found that there is one issue that transcends all the rest. I have found that there is one issue that people are concerned about above all the rest, and that is the issue of the survival of this country. Everybody knows that we are in a great conflict today, a conflict between the forces of freedom on the one side, and the forces of tyranny on the other. Everyone knows, too, that the major responsibility of the next President of the United States, in addition to the many other responsibilities that he will have, will be to see that a great offensive is mounted to win that conflict, to win it without war, or, putting it another way, the major test that you must apply to me and to my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and to our opponents, is this: Which of the two teams can best provide the leadership that America and the free world needs to keep the peace, but keep it without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? Now, I'm sure that all of you agree with my assumption that that is the great issue, because all of us realize that the solutions that we may find to every other problem will mean nothing at all unless we're around to enjoy it. And so I want to talk to that issue tonight. I talked to it a little earlier today at the American Legion convention down in Miami, but that was a nonpolitical talk. Tonight we're going to take the gloves off and talk a little politics. At the American Legion, my opponent found everything wrong with the policies of this administration in the field of foreign policy for the last 8 years. He found that we were running down. He found that our prestige was reaching an all-time low. He found that our defenses were drifting away. He found that the only thing that would cure America of its ills, of course, was to elect him President of the United States. Now, just let me say this, with regard to the record of this administration: Obviously, any administration will make mistakes, and particularly when we deal with the great problem of Communist aggression in the world. We can be sure they're going to cause us trouble, and we will be sure that the seas that we sail will not always be smooth, but the question is how you handle the trouble. The question is how you see it through. And, as I look over the record of the Eisenhower administration, and as I compare it with the record of the Truman administration, I say the people want to go forward and not back to what we left in 1953. And to my opponent who said, "America has been retreating for the last 8 years, to say that we have been losing the battle for peace without surrender for the last 8 years, I ask him to say what happened in the Truman years; 600 million people lost to communism. A war in Korea. What happened in the Eisenhower years? Well, we got the United States out of one war; we've kept her out of others, and we do have peace without surrender today. Now, what about all this talk about America's weakness, its military weakness, its economic weakness and the like? Just let me say this: America is the strongest nation in the world, and Mr. Khrushchev knows it, and we will continue to be the strongest nation in the world, but we aren't going to continue to be if we think of ourselves as being a second-rate country - and we certainly must not do that. And, as far as the criticisms are concerned, I think they were pretty well summed up when my opponent was speaking in New York a few days ago. I'll quote him exactly, without notes, incidentally. This is what he said: He said, "I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing. I'm tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing. I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Our answer, and my answer, to him is this: If he'd stop talking and start reading, he'd find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. Now, he hasn't been doing some of the things that my opponent has suggested. He didn't apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev for defending the United States against surprise attack. He didn't make the error back in 1955, which my opponent and 11 other Senators, well intentioned, but wooly in their thinking on this subject, wanted him to make, and that was to abandon an area of freedom, to draw a line and, in effect, to surrender it at a gun point to the Communists, and, as a result of that firm policy, we have found that the Communists have not advanced in that area and otherwise they surely would have. And it's true he hasn't been doing some of the things Mr. Khrushchev has been doing. President Eisenhower hasn't been making a fool of himself at the United Nations - and we should be thankful for that. No, the President of the United States has been leading this country in a way that Americans are proud. He has led us firmly, but nonbelligerently. He has worked through the United Nations to help save the independence of the Congo, for example, rather than to do what Mr. Khrushchev has done, and that is to attempt to interfere unilaterally into the affairs of that country and take over its independence. All of these things have added up to this: they have added up to the fact that American prestige today stands high. It stands high in the world, and if we had any doubt about it, all you have to look at are the votes in the United Nations. You may remember one that took place on the Congo a few weeks ago. The Soviet Union was on one side. We were on the other side, and the U.S. position won 70 to 0. Well, that's pretty good in any kind of sports, but it's very good in international relations, and it's the answer to those who say that our prestige is falling. And so I say to our opponents: We welcome the comparison in the field of foreign policy with their record and ours. We welcome it at any time, and if they're going to talk about our record, we're going to talk about theirs, and we're going to set them straight every time they distort our record, as they have been doing it. Now, let us turn to the qualifications of the candidates. What do you look to as far as Ambassador Lodge and I are concerned? You must, first, of course, look to our record, because we have sat in the high councils of this administration over the past 7½ years. We have had the opportunity of participating in the discussions leading to the great decisions on Lebanon, Quemoy, and Matsu. And, so, as far as this record is concerned, we are part of it; we must accept responsibility for it, and I, for one, am very proud of it; but, turning to the future, these things you also know about us: We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We know the Communists. We have sat opposite him at the conference table, and, knowing him, I think I can assure you that we will not be fooled by him, because we think we know how to handle him and how he reacts in tile world councils. You see, it is so easy to make mistakes in dealing with the Communists, because they are always mistakes not of the heart, but of the head. They are mistakes that are made because people misjudge these men. They think they will react like the leaders of the free world. They think you can treat a man like Khrushchev as you would Mr. Macmillan, Mr. Adenauer, or Mr. De Gaulle, other men who are honorable in their dealings in international affairs. But look at this man. Let me describe him to you: ruthless, fanatical, determined to accomplish only one thing, and that is dominating the world for communism, willing to use any means, foul or fair, to accomplish that end. When you have a man like that, then, there are certain things you must do if you want to keep peace, if you want to avoid surrender and if you want to have victory for freedom without war. The first thing we must do is to see that America continues to be the strongest nation in the world, and on that score I want to make it clear that no American can ever be satisfied with our level of strength. The world changes. Technological developments come along. The Soviet Union moves up its strength. Our responsibilities increase, and I want you to know that we must continue to build our strength and that American security and strength militarily must come before any budget considerations. We cannot have a dollar sign on what Americans will do to defend themselves against those who would destroy us and destroy our freedom with it. And, so, you can be sure that my colleague and I, knowing our potential enemies, will keep America strong, stronger than any of those who threaten the peace of the world. We also will see that our diplomacy is firm, firm, as I indicated a moment ago, without being belligerent. Why is it that I emphasize this? You've read about this recent discussion in the papers with regard to the two islands in the Pacific, Quemoy and Matsu, and I know that many people may well raise a question: Why all the hullabaloo about a couple of little islands out there? Only 50,000 people live on them. Why get concerned about them? Why not draw a line, as Senator Kennedy suggests, and draw a line which leaves them out of the perimeter of freedom? And, my friends, I'll tell you why you can't do it. Because it never works with a dictator. Let me give you a little history. When Hitler - you remember, it was Danzig and it was the Sudetenland, and it was Austria, and every time it was said, "Just a little more we will give him and that's all he will want." Where a dictator is concerned, a little never satisfied him. It only whets his appetite and he wants more. And then the same mistake was repeated in Korea. You remember Mr. Acheson in January of 1950 drew a line, drew a line with Korea outside of it, and a lot of people probably drew a sigh of relief and said, "Now we are not going to have a war about Korea." But the Communists took him at his word and in they marched, and in we marched - 35,000 American boys dead as a result of a mistake made by diplomats - and I say we have learned our lesson, and we are not in to make the mistake of surrendering or abandoning an area of freedom and thereby encourage the very attack, the very war that we want to discourage by our firm position. Then let us turn to another area of strength that we need. In addition to diplomatic strength and military strength, economy of this country must be strong. I particularly want to talk to that point today because if we are to win the struggle for freedom we can't just hold the line. We must wage a great offensive for freedom throughout the world, and this means an offensive without war, and this means an offensive for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men, economic in character, spiritual and moral as well. Now, let's look at the economic factors for just a moment. We've been hearing that America has been standing still, and it's said we've got to change our economic policies so that America can get going again, so that we can cross some new frontiers. Well, my friends, just let me say this: Anybody who says America has been standing still during the Eisenhower years just hasn't been traveling around America. He's been traveling in some other country, I can tell you that, because - look at this area; look at the State of Florida the growth here in the last 8 years. I say that those who say America is standing still are making a fatal error. They are judging the growth of America by what government does rather than what people do, and it's people who make America great, not just simply what government does at the Federal or the State or the local level. To those who say that America has been standing still, may I also have this rejoinder: We certainly don't want to go back to the policies we left in 1953 because, by every index you take, we have been moving in the last 7 years more than we moved in the previous 7 years. We built more schools, more hospitals, more jobs, higher wages, more increase in social security benefits and number covered. Any index you want to take, the American people have moved forward more under Eisenhower than they did under Truman. And all that our opponent offers in this particular campaign is a retread of the Truman policies. Well, my friends, I say we don't want to go back to those policies. We had enough of them in 1953, and we're going to go forward and not backward today, because those policies, just as in the field of foreign policy, amount to a retreat from freedom. A retreat from the frontiers of freedom in foreign policy would have resulted if we had taken the Senator's advice on Quemoy and Matsu, or on the U-2 flights. And then in domestic policies what do we find? A retreat from freedom here. For example, a farm program so drastic that even Henry Wallace criticized it, found it was more severe than those imposed in many Communist countries - a further centralization of power in the Federal Government, shrinking the rights and the responsibilities of the States, huge new Federal spending programs. The result will be what? Higher taxes. Higher prices for the American people. No question about it. That's what the program will buy for you. A compulsory medical care program - and I will have more to say about that in a moment. A teachers' program, an education program, which differs from ours in this fundamental: It would take our teachers and put them directly under the Federal Government as far as subsidization of their salaries is concerned, and the net result of that would give the inevitable power to the Federal Government to tell our teachers what to teach - and we don't want that in Washington. We want that at the local level and not in Washington.  In monetary policies, in the other fields, we find this same obsession of rather than expanding freedom, as we would, of retreating from freedom - and I say the American people are not going to retreat from the frontiers of freedom abroad, and they are not going to engage in an attack on the frontiers of freedom at home. Now, what is the alternative? I'll tell you what it is. Many people come to me and they say, "Mr. Nixon, how can you say that your programs in the field of education and housing and health and medical care, and the like, will produce greater progress than your opponent's will when he'll spend more money than you will?" And you know what the answer is? Whose money is he spending? It's not Jack's, but it's yours. That's the case, and I say that the very fact that our programs will produce more progress and spend billions less is a reason to vote for them rather than against them. Now, why is it that ours will do more and spend less? Because their answer to every problem in the economic area is what? It is to take the problem to Washington, to set up a huge new Federal program. They have no confidence or have little confidence in the States. They seem to have very little confidence in the individual. And, so, the result is, they say the way to progress is to start, in effect, with the Federal Government and work down to the people. And you know what our answer is? Our answer is that the way to progress in this country is not to start with the Federal Government and work down to the people, but to start with the people and work up to the Federal Government. That's the way to progress. Let's take one example, medical care for the aged, just to prove the point. They say the thing to do here is to set up a huge Federal program. They would compel everybody on social security, leaving out 3 million not covered and who need it the most, to have this coverage whether they want it or not - and they say that's the answer. What do we say? We say there's a better way. We say there is a way to handle this program through the States and the Federal Government, through a program in which individuals can buy private health insurance, if they want, rather than Government health insurance. In essence, we say that every individual over 65 who wants health insurance ought to be able to get it, and we have a program that will provide it. We say that every person over 65 who needs it should be encouraged to get it. But here's where we differ. We say that nobody who does not want self-insurance should be compelled to have it against his will. That's the American way to handle this problem. In every area I could spell it out, but in summary what the solution is is this - that if we want progress, if we want to win this struggle for the world, we must move in the direction of more faith in freedom and free men rather than less. We must move in the direction of greater concentration on and dedication to our ideals rather than less because, my friends, that is what will decide the struggle for freedom. It will not be decided by people who have lost confidence in America, in her strength in her free institutions. It will be decided by people who know why America is great, who believe that America can continue to move forward through freedom and with freedom rather than controlling it and reducing it. I can only say in that connection, that, having traveled to 54 countries abroad, I know from what I have seen on both sides of the Iron Curtain that we will win because the people of the world know that America stands for more than military might, more than economic might; that we stand for great ideals - for our faith in freedom, for our faith in God, for our belief in the dignity of all men, in their equality of opportunity. These are the great ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago. These are the ideals for which America stands today, and these are the ideals with which we will win the struggle for the world. It is to that cause that I ask you to dedicate yourselves. It is for that cause that Cabot Lodge and I ask for your support in this campaign. If you feel we are the ones who can lead America to victory for freedom without war, then we ask for your support and we hope we can be worthy of it in the years ahead. Thank you.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Your Eminence, Cardinal Spellman; Mr. Silver, Senator Kennedy, Governor Rockefeller, Mr. Mayor, my colleagues in the Senate, Mrs. Warner, all of the distinguished guests in back of me and all of the distinguished guests in front of me: I want to say that I do appreciate the opportunity that Cardinal Spellman has afforded to me as an alumnus to come back to this dinner. As I told him just a few moments ago, I just had a telephone call from one who has twice been before this dinner, and who is quoted in the program. The President called me from California. Incidentally, he said the weather was very good out there. And he said, "Would you extend to Cardinal Spellman to all of his guests, all good wishes from the President of the United States?" And so I do that. Now, when he said "All good wishes," I said, "Well, do you know who's going to be there, Mr. President?" And he said, "No." I said, "Well, Senator Kennedy is going to speak, too." He said, "Well, all good wishes, except one - of course, as far as Senator Kennedy is concerned." But certainly the opportunity that both Senator Kennedy and I have had to appear previously is one that we have deeply appreciated and the fact that we have been invited back again, probably under circumstances that are quite unusual is one that we also have appreciated and looked forward to. For me, this is a special occasion, because I consider it a welcome interlude from campaigning, an interlude in which I have the opportunity to join with Senator Kennedy and Governor Rockefeller, the mayor, and all the rest of you, in honoring the very remarkable man who made "Smith" an uncommon name. I have found, however, that the problem of the last speaker on a program is that all of his speeches are made by the time he gets up to speak. I have been thinking up to this time about how much easier this campaign would be if I could have the mayor's speech writer, and Cardinal Spellman as my finance chairman. I also, incidentally, have been thinking a great deal about what would be appropriate for me to say of a nonpolitical nature, what would be appropriate to say and still be true to my own conscience. Of course, I expect attacks in campaigns. One has been made upon me of which I have to take some recognition at this dinner. It was not made tonight, but made previously. I hesitate to do it. It is of such a serious nature, however, that I think before this particular audience what I consider to be one of the worst smears in American political history has got to be nailed. I read it just a few days ago in the paper. I call it to your attention tonight. Dateline, Havana: Fidel Castro said: "The two men running for President of the United States are a couple of beardless youths." Now, I resent that. I resent it because, as Senator Kennedy well knows, after my first television debate, my makeup man said I had the worst beard since Sal Maglie. But that is the only one of the attacks that I think worth mentioning tonight. I saw little reason to go to particularly great concern in attempting to honor the man whose dinner has become one of the most famous and certainly draws the most distinguished audience in all the world today. All the things that could be said about Al Smith had really been said most eloquently before I got up to speak. I have read his speeches too, because Al Smith is a man who is bigger than his party. He is bigger than his party, and will be forever in the minds of the American people bigger than his party, because the ideals for which he stood were as big as America, itself. And Al Smith is most remembered for his campaign in 1928, for the very eloquent statement that he made at Oklahoma City, an example that all Americans, I would trust, would follow in all the generations to come on religious tolerance. He is also remembered perhaps less, but I would like to suggest that we remember him tonight for his service in later years, long after that campaign had become a less bitter memory to him and to the American people. The year - 1941 - Al Smith, speaking on the Columbia Broadcasting System. You recall the time. The battle of France was over. The battle of Britain had begun, and America was shaping its own battle of conscience. "It wasn't our war," some said. "It was too far away. It couldn't happen here." Al Smith speaking:  There is no political difference on the stand we must take in opposition to the dictators, in defense of our country, not only against their arms, but against their ideas. I would like to speak to the latter part of that eloquent statement. Religion should not be an issue in a campaign and it will not be, certainly, if those of us who are of good will, as Senator Kennedy is, and I am, and we would trust our supporters would be, can do everything we can to keep the real issues before the American people by not discussing religion. Some of you may recall when I appeared before the American Association of Newspaper Editors earlier this year I made a statement with regard to religion in the 1960 campaign which was broadly criticized. I said that the only real and legitimate religious issue in an American political campaign would be or would arise if one of the candidates for the Presidency had no faith in God, if he had no religion. I was criticized on the ground that the Constitution, of course, does not apply and does not ask for or require any religious affiliation for any candidates for public office. But my point was not that. My point was that in these times, whoever is to lead America and the free world must be a man who, in addition to standing for a strong America economically and militarily is a man of faith:  Faith in God; Faith in the rights of men. He must be a man who has a belief that those rights that men have to freedom, to equality of opportunity, do not come from man, but that they come from God, and, therefore, cannot be taken away by man. He must be a man who believes that every nation has a right to be independent, that all peoples have a right to be free. Some of these you could well say are not religious beliefs. Some of these ideals that I have described are and can be held by men who have no religious faith. But let me say that, based on what I have seen in my travels about the world, America must never forget that this critical period of the sixties is going to be a test of faith as much or even more than it is a test of arms. And on our side will be our faith in God, the faith of all men and all women in this country, in God, and on our side that faith will prove to be decisive. May I spell it out for just a moment? We hear a great deal, as we properly should, about the great battle going on in Asia, in Africa, in Latin America. It is true that the people in these countries want progress, and if the only choice they have is progress at the cost of freedom or staying where they are, they're going to take progress at the cost of freedom. It is this that the Communists offer. Now we come to what we offer. It is not enough for America to go to the people and say "Communism is bad. We help you because we want to fight communism." It is not enough to do that, because these people, very understandably, do not and should not be pawns in a struggle between two great world powers. And it is not enough to tell these people, "We help you because we want to help ourselves. We help you because we want to save freedom for America, save the prosperity, the good life that we have and expect to enjoy in the years ahead." What I am trying to say, very simply, is this: If America is to win the struggle in the minds and the hearts and the souls of men that is going on in the world, we are not going to win it simply by fighting on the battleground that the militarists and materialists choose. We are going to win it by emphasizing our faith and our ideals. And what does this have to do with religious faith, with religious ideals? Look at the people of Africa, the people of Asia, the people of Latin America. When we help them, let it appear to them, as it is, that America is helping them because we care for them. There are key words in all great religions. Cardinal Spellman described one and used one tonight - "charity" in its broadest sense. This is what America must convey in its foreign policy, in its individual policy. There is the Quaker word "concerning," a concern for the problems of others, and there is the Hebrew word "Tziduckah" to do justly, not to help people because you're doing a favor to them, but to help them because you are doing justly. It is the right thing to do. All of this is part of the great Judeo-Christian heritage which is ours. And, so, on this particular occasion, when we honor a man who was a great political leader, but a man also who had a great religious faith, America's lesson from him is this: Keep America strong militarily. Be sure that we are also the strongest nation in the world economically. But also, above everything else, remember that America must present to the whole world the image of a people concerned about the problems of the world because if poverty and misery and disease and tyranny exist we would be concerned even if there were no communism. This is what we must convey, and this, through our religious faith, we will be able to convey much more effectively than simply through the actions of government or through what a President of the United States may be able to say. And, so, in conclusion, I would add only this last thought: Many years have passed since the year 1928. Many memories have become less bitter through the years. Three weeks from today either Senator Kennedy or I will be the President-elect of this country, and then we will go our separate courses in the years to come. I've been trying to think how I could best close my remarks and refer to him and refer to me, and I go back to the campaign of 1928. Herbert Hoover was elected. Al Smith lost. But both of them lived many, many years longer, and both of them, the longer they lived, gained love and affection from the American people - and I would only hope tonight that, however this election turns out, Senator Kennedy and I in the years ahead will be able to conduct ourselves with the dignity, the decency which earned the esteem and the love of the American people for the two men who were engaged in that great campaign of 1928.
 The decline in unemployment throughout the country reported last week by the Departments of Labor and Commerce is good news for America. It must have come as a disappointing surprise to the opposition camp from which we are hearing so much foreboding talk about the future these days. Listening to the opposition, one would never know that there are almost 68 million Americans at work in our $500 billion economy and that Americans are earning at a record annual rate of over $408 billion. One will never learn from my opponent that employment declined less than seasonally last month and that unemployment went down more than seasonally. Unemployment dropped not only as to number but also as a percentage of the labor force. His pessimistic talk today recalls to my mind the situation in 1953 when the Eisenhower administration assumed responsibility for the Nation's affairs. The economy was still in the shackles brought on by the Korean war, the dollar was badly eroded, the budget was seriously out of balance and scheduled to be out of balance for several years. During these past 8 years unprecedented economic progress has been made by Americans according to virtually every available measure and all this has been accomplished without the stimulus of war spending or make-work programs. Controls have been removed to make way for freedom, fiscal responsibility has been established, erosion in the value of the dollar has been checked, confidence in the future has been restored in an environment remarkably free of inflationary psychology, and America has again come to know prosperity with peace. But we are not satisfied. There are problems and challenges that constantly require our close and active attention. Times of hesitation in our economic growth, such as we have experienced in recent months, are far from unusual; history shows that they mark a dynamic, free economy as purely as periods of surging expansion. But we can always do better and I am determined that we shall do better in quickening the pace of our economic advance and in minimizing interruptions to it. I am determined to undertake every sensible measure to that end, to lift to ever higher levels the number of jobs in America, to reduce unemployment further, and to utilize more fully our industrial capacity in steel and other lines To achieve that goal we must release fully the greatest creative force in human affairs - the spirit of individual enterprise in 180 million Americans. That effort calls for a many-sided program which I have been developing, and will continue to develop, in this campaign. My program calls for mobilizing our human resources to the full by combating racial discrimination, by stimulating scientific research and development, by forging an adequate national program in support of State, local, and individual efforts in education. My program calls for mobilizing our natural resources by a dynamic teamwork policy of encouraging their conservation and wise development, by constructively rebuilding our farm program, by mounting a sound local-Federal attack on the stubborn problems of depressed areas. My program calls for keeping our economy fit by fighting feather-bedding whether in government, labor, or business, by keeping our money straight through rigorous economy and control of the Federal budget, by revising our tax system to stimulate job-creating investment, by sound improvements in our ways of handling national emergency strikes, by timely and vigorous Government action to forestall both inflation and recession, and by efforts to foster new and small business. These are the elements of my program to generate confidence, not fear, as to the future of the American economy. It is a program that will spur our economic growth, that will raise living standards and not merely living costs. It is a program that runs with, not against, the grain of freedom. It is a program under which the American people themselves will grow in capacity and character as they are asked to shoulder more, not less, economic, political, and social responsibility. It will show that freedom works. In judging this philosophy and program the American people are confronted in this campaign with the glowing promises of my opponent. Remember this when you hear his case: On the record opposition promises aren't worth a plugged nickel. Consider their whole 20-year record. For 6 years in the 1930's the opposition failed miserably to solve the problem of unemployment. In 1939, when war came in Europe, unemployment in America, after 6 futile years of their trying to solve it, stood just under 9½ million. Let's face it: It took war to solve the unemployment riddle for them. After the war was over opposition spokesmen forecast some 6 million unemployed. Why? Because, recalling their prewar experience, they couldn't see what would keep the economy going and create jobs when Government war orders were cut back. What saved the opposition from their own dire predictions were, first, the huge demands to meet the emergency needs of a war-torn world whose productive facilities had been destroyed and, second, the accumulated needs of the civilian economy at home which had been starved by the depression the opposition couldn't bring us out of and by several years of war. When these emergency postwar demands were on the way to being satisfied, the opposition was faced with a recession. That was the Truman recession of 1949. Unemployment jumped to almost 5 million. What saved the opposition this time from a dragging economy? The Korean war. Once again the economy surged to levels that they so like to cite. So what judgment is to be made of the opposition's 20-year stewardship of the Nation's economic affairs? 1. Its policy was a tragic failure in solving the problem of unemployment during the peacetime years from 1933 to 1939. 2. During the following 6 years, preparation for war and war itself solved the unemployment problem for them. 3. Emergency demands, deferred from the decade of depression and the war period, kept the economy active during the first 4 postwar years. 4. The emergency period over, we had the Truman recession of 1949 from which the country was bailed out by the Korean war. 5. To cap it all, the American dollar lost half of its buying power in their two decades of power. That is the record. It is a record of spend-and-spend, tax-and-tax, borrow-and-borrow, inflate-and-inflate. But more important, the programs that my opponent offers today to meet the dynamic needs of America in the sixties are but retreads of the programs that produced this dismal record of failure to make the American economy work except in time of war, preparation for war, or aftermath of war. In the light of this record the American people can have no confidence in opposition claims that they can assure jobs and progress in the peacetime America we are determined to have. The American people cannot run the risk of entrusting their prosperity to such hands as these.
Senator Kennedy in this campaign has resorted to so many misstatements and distortions that I feel compelled to set the record straight. In this document I am presenting some of the most glaring of these errors and the facts relating to them. The mistatement: In the third debate Senator Kennedy said:  This administration and this country last year had the lowest rate of economic growth, which means jobs, of any major industrialized society in the world in 1959. The facts: During 1959 the U.S. economy grew 6.9 percent. This rate of growth was higher than Italy's 6.2 percent, West Germany's 5.8 percent, the United Kingdom's 2.7 percent and France's 2.4 percent - all for the same year. The mistatement: In the first debate Senator Kennedy said:  I am not satisfied when we are failing to develop the natural resources of the United States to the fullest. Here in the United States, which developed the Tennessee Valley and which built the Grand Coulee and the other dams in the Northwest United States, at the present rate of hydropower production, and that is the hallmark of an industrialized society, the Soviet Union by 1975 will be producing more power than we are. The facts: By 1975 U.S. power production, as estimated by the Federal Power Commission, will be 1,800 billion kilowatt-hours of electrical energy. The Soviet Minister of Power, A. S. Pavlenko, stated in 1958 that the Soviet objective for 1975 was 900 billion kilowatt-hours, half that estimated for the United States by that year. The United States is now producing annually about 550 billion kilowatt-hours more than the U.S.S.R. As the above figures show, our lead over the Soviets will have increased by 1975 to 900 billion kilowatt-hours. That Senator Kennedy's statement is without foundation is illustrated by the fact that the Soviets, just to catch up with the United States by 1975, would have to increase their capacity by building the equivalent of at least eight Grand Coulee Dams in each and every year between now and 1975. The mistatement: Senator Kennedy in the third debate said:  Well, first may I correct a statement which was made before that under my agricultural program food prices would go up 25 percent. That's untrue. The facts: In presenting his farm plan in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., Senator Kennedy said that the prices under his parity-of-income concept could be calculated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture "without difficulty." This has been done by career farm and food experts in that Department. Their report has been made public and is the source for the statements on rising food costs to which the Senator now objects. That study states: Indicated price increases, at retail, for some commodities, follow :   (in cents)    1959   Estimated price under proposal (figures rounded to nearest cent)    Choice grade beef................................. Pork, pound.......................................... Chickens, pound................................... Eggs, dozen.......................................... Bread, loaf............................................ Milk, quart............................................  82 57 42 51 20 25   98 81 64 79 21 30    The report states that "food prices would go up about 25 percent." The report also points out that "the burden of the higher cost would fall most heavily on the low-income consumers who spend the largest part of their income on food." The misstatement: In the second debate Senator Kennedy said:  The Republicans in recent years, not only the last 25 years but in the last 8 years, have opposed * * * Federal aid to education * * *. The facts: This administration proposed bills to provide assistance to education in 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, and 1960. Of these proposals, the only one passed by the Democratic Congress was the National Defense Education Act of 1958 which provided for student loans, graduate fellowships, and grants to States and universities to improve science, mathematics, and language teaching. A majority of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, including Senator Kennedy, wrote in its report on the School Construction Assistance Act of 1959: "President Eisenhower has repeatedly stressed the need for Federal assistance to our schools in his state of the Union messages." In addition, I have repeatedly expressed my support for constructive Federal programs to assist education and on September 26, 1960, issued a position paper containing a comprehensive program for such aid. The misstatement: In Redding, Calif., on September 8, Senator Kennedy said: "Our forests are vanishing, our wildlife is vanishing * * * ", The facts: Since 1953, the area planned or seeded to trees in national forest has more than doubled - from 51,200 acres annually to 112,000 acres annually. Timber stand improvement work was done on 387,300 acres in the national forests in 1953, and today this work has increased to 800,000 acres annually. Forest research effort has tripled over the past 8 years. Trees planted on all public and private lands have increased more than 4 times - from 477,407,000 in 1953, to 2,080,122,000 in 1960. Since 1953 over 600,000 acres have been added to the national park system. In the first 4 years alone of the new Mission 66 program of park improvements, effort as measured by expenditures has exceeded that of the entire 13 years of previous administrations. In the field of fish and wildlife conservation, 23 refuges totaling 114,000 acres in 22 States have been added since 1953 to the national wildlife refuge system. Completion of the 9 million acre Arctic Wildlife Range will raise the total of national wildlife areas to a record 27 million acres. The misstatement: In the second debate Senator Kennedy said,  Mr. Nixon is wholly inaccurate when he says the Congress has not provided more funds in fact than the President recommended for national defense. The facts: The claim that Democratic Congresses did not cut President Eisenhower's defense budgets, but rather provided more than he asked, is contrary to the facts available in the Bureau of the Budget which show that over the past 6 years of Democratic Congressional control, the Congress cut the President's recommendations for new defense spending authority on net by $1.7 million. The misstatement: In Warm Springs, Georgia, on October 10, 1960, Senator Kennedy accused the Vice President of "election year hypocrisy" in the health and medical fields. He complained that the Nation's health problems "have been neglected for 8 years" and that the Republican Party has been "frozen in the ice of its own indifference." The facts: In 1954 this administration recommended, and the Republican 83d Congress approved, legislation to modernize and expend the Hill-Burton program for hospital construction. In 1954 President Eiseiihower recommended, and the Republican 83d Congress approved, legislation to expand our Federal-State vocational rehabilitation program. In 1956 the administration recommended legislation to establish a continuing national health survey to permit the Public Health Service to gather and evaluate data on the condition of the people's health so that health programs can be soundly planned and intelligently carried out. This program later became law. The Republican administration recommended and supported a new medical care program for dependents of members of the armed services. Under a Republican administration, a sound health program for American Indians was initiated. President Eisenhower initiated our current program for the professional training of graduate nurses and the vocational training of practical nurses. The President also initiated action on legislation to help train physicians and other specialists in public health. It was the Republican 83d Congress that passed the first law dealing with the mounting problems of air pollution throughout the land. It was the Eisenhower administration that recommended legislation to improve enforcement under the Water Pollution Control Act. Repeatedly the President has recommended legislation to provide Federal matching grants for the construction of medical teaching facilities - legislation which the Democratic-led Congress has failed to enact. The misstatement: In Los Angeles, Calif., on September 9, 1960, Senator Kennedy said:  [The Republican Party] has failed to take one constructive step toward guaranteeing equal opportunities to all Americans. The facts: In the last 7½ years, more progress has been made in the area of equal opportunity and civil rights than in the entire period since the Civil War. (A) Upon recommendation of President Eisenhower, the first Civil Rights Act in more than 80 years became law in 1957. It established a Civil Rights Division in the Department of Justice and provided a more effective guarantee of the right to vote. (B) The Civil Rights Act of 1960 was proposed by President Eisenhower and, in most of its significant aspects, drafted by the administration. It reinforced the 1957 law's guarantee of constitutional rights. (C) This administration completed integration in the Armed Forces and in hospitals of the Veterans' Administration. (D) This administration abolished segregation in the Nation's Capital, in schools on military posts, and in the ranks of civilian employees at military bases and other Federal establishments. (E) This administration employed more Negroes and in more responsible positions in the National Government than ever before during peacetime - including a special assistant to the President, a Governor of the Virgin Islands, and an Assistant Secretary of Labor. (F) Since it was established in 1957, the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice has processed more than 5,500 complaints of violations of a wide range of statutes and, as of September 30, 1960, had 130 cases pending in court. (G) Starting June 1, 1960, the administration, through the Department of Justice, initiated a series of conferences with executives of variety and chainstores in order to explore means of enabling Negro citizens to be served at lunch counters in such stores. As a direct result, chainstore management personnel, in conjunction with local authorities and other interested groups, have successfully mediated up to the present time the opening of store counters to Negroes in over 900 communities in Southern and border States. The misstatement: In the second debate, Senator Kennedy said:  The Republicans in recent years, not only in the last 25 years in the last 8 years, have opposed housing * * *. The facts: More houses have been built during this administration than during any similar period in history - over 9 million new dwellings - 25 percent more than in the preceding 7 years. More people own their own homes now than at any time in history - three out of every five American families are homeowners compared to slightly more than one out of two families 10 years ago. In 1954 the administration, with a Republican Congress, enlarged and transformed the existing slum-clearance program into the broader urban renewal program we have today. Since 1953 President Eisenhower has four times recommended increased funds for urban renewal, and $1.5 billion has been authorized - three times as much as was authorized before 1953. Under this administration the number of towns and cities carrying out urban renewal projects has more than doubled - the total is now above 450. The number of projects is more than 800 times the number of slum clearance projects initiated in all the years prior to 1953. States and localities are taking advantage of a new Republican program to help in planning for whole metropolitan areas, enacted in 1954 and broadened under Republican - sponsored amendments in 1959. Under this program Federal grants have been made to 10 States, to 100 metropolitan areas and urban regions and to 1,300 smaller communities in our Nation for planning for urban development. Since January 1953, under President Eisenhower's administration, 132,000 federally assisted low-rent public housing units have been built. The Eisenhower administration has also fostered a special program of housing for the elderly. During the last 3 years, more than 20,000 private or public units especially designed for the elderly have been built or started. The distortion: In the third debate Senator Kennedy said:  When Senator Green * * * wrote to the President, he received back on the 2d of October 1958, that "neither you nor any other American need feel the United States will be involved in military hostilities merely in the defense of Quemoy and Matsu." The facts: Senator Kennedy has quoted but one sentence of the President's letter, which gravely distorts and completely misrepresents the President's position on this vital matter. The policy of the President and the administration has specifically avoided drawing a defense line around Formosa that excludes Quemoy and Matsu. The President made that perfectly clear in his letter to Senator Green, the following part of which Senator Kennedy did not quote:  The Chinese and Soviet Communist leaders assert, and have reason to believe, that if they can take Quemoy and Matsu by armed assault that will open the way for them to take Formosa and the Pescadores and, as they put it, "expel" the United States from the west Pacific and cause its fleet to leave international waters and "go home." Certainly there is always the possibility that it may in certain contingencies, after taking account of all relevant facts, become necessary or appropriate for the defense of Formosa and the Pescadores also to take measures to secure and protect the related positions of Quenioy and Matsu. The full text of this letter was available to Senator Kennedy as it is to the public. A careful reading of it will show that the President and I are in exact agreement, as the White House has confirmed. Meanwhile, the contradictory statements of Senator Kennedy still leave him opposed to this position. The misstatement: In the second debate Senator Kennedy said:  The Republicans in recent years, not only in the last 25 years, but in the last 8 years, have opposed * * * minimum wage * * The facts: Senator Kennedy is saying that Republicans who opposed his particular bill are against minimum wage. The administration supported an increase in the minimum wage in 1955, and in 1957 urged legislation to extend minimum wage coverage to some 3 million additional workers, an extension which the Democratic-led Congress failed to approve. In 1960, this administration sought to extend minimum wage coverage to 3.1 million additional workers and indicated support of an increase in the minimum wage to $1.15 per hour. The misstatement: In the first debate Senator Kennedy said that the Republican Party gives only "lipservice" to programs of medical care for the aged. In the second debate he said:  The Republicans in recent years, not only in the last 25 years but in the last 8 years, have opposed * * * care for the aged * * * The facts: The Democratic-controlled Congress rejected the broad Federal-State program of medical care for the aged proposed by the administration. The Republican leadership then developed a compromise proposal which would have established a new Federal-State program to allow all aged persons of moderate means an opportunity to purchase protection in advance against the cost of illness which might occur. The Federal Government would have assisted in this program by liberal matching grants. It would have been a voluntary program in which the individual could elect to enter the program or not as he saw fit. The Democratic-controlled Congress rejected this proposal, and its leadership supported a compulsory program of health insurance which would have been available only to those persons over 68 who are social security beneficiaries. That bill would not have covered the many aged who are not social security beneficiaries nor would it have covered those social security beneficiaries between 65 and 68. This measure also failed. Senator Kennedy is typically unwilling to recognize an alternative approach to one that he has suggested as being anything more than a "lipservice," even though the majority of the Senate did not support his bill. The misstatement: In the second debate Senator Kennedy said:  We have beamed not a single Voice of America program in in Spanish to all of Latin America in the last 8 years except for the 3 months of the Hungarian revolution. The facts: Through the U.S. Information Agency's Voice of America, Latin Americans receive 160,000 broadcast-hours every year in both Spanish and Portuguese. These programs are recorded by the Voice of America, and are used by 1,500 local stations throughout Latin America to reach medium wave and longwave listeners who constitute the overwhelmingly predominant portion of radio listeners. To reach the small shortwave audience the Voice of America contracted between 1953 and 1960 with Boston station WRUL to broadcast shortwave in Spanish to Latin America. The Voice of America itself broadcasts every day by shortwave in Spanish to Latin America. These broadcasts are heard by individual shortwave listeners. They are also picked up by some 75 Latin American local radio stations which relay the programs on their regular longwave frequencies. This record would have been even better had the U.S. Information Agency and its Voice of America been given all of the money recommended for them by the President. The Democratic-led Congress in every year since 1954 has made substantial cuts in the amount of money that the President requested for the U.S. Information Agency, including a total reduction of $87 million in annual operating funds.
Governor BOGGS. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator Williams. Fellow candidates and friends and fellow citizens, this is a great thrill and a great privilege to me to present to you our friend and the next President of the United States, Dick Nixon. [Applause.] Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. Thank You. Senator Williams, Governor Boggs, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this great audience here in Wilmington, Del., I want you to know, first, how much my wife and I appreciate your welcoming us to this city, not only today in such great numbers, but also the way that we were welcomed when we came into the airport last night. As a matter of fact, we arrived at about midnight and we expected no one at the airport, but apparently no one in Delaware ever goes to bed with the net result that we had one of the most enthusiastic and largest airport crowds of our whole campaign trip. [Applause.] Now, this morning to come here again to speak again in this area where I have had the privilege of speaking before, to see this great throng is indeed most inspiring and we do appreciate your coming out because we know how busy you are; we know that certainly the facilities under which you have to stand there jammed together are not the best, and this is an opportunity that we particularly have appreciated and we want to thank you for coming. [Applause.] Now, we have been looking forward to this visit to Delaware for a number of reasons. As you know, coming as we do from Washington, we, like most Washingtonians, make good use of your Delaware beaches and Pat and I have not been to Rehoboth as often as we would like, but believe me, no matter what happens in November, we are going to come back to Rehoboth if you will invite us over. [Applause.] And we will do that because our daughters insist upon it, if for no other reason. We want to thank you for your very generous welcomes when we have been here on many occasions. Also, we have been looking forward to coming here because it gave us an opportunity to see again a man who is not running this year, but a man who has made a reputation as one of the really great Senators, not only of the State of Delaware, but of the United States, and I refer to my friend, and Delaware's great Senator, John Williams. [Applause.] And I am glad to have the opportunity to be here this morning. And then, too, this visit was one that we wanted to make from a personal standpoint because we had another chance to see Bill Boggs. We came to the Congress together in 1947. I said last night that to indicate what we thought of him that when we selected the president of the freshman Congress that year, he was the one that was selected and that shows that certainly the people in Washington had a high regard for Delaware's Congressman. Since then I have followed his career as you have in the House, and also in the governorship of this State, and I can only say that obviously I am biased for personal reasons; I like him; Pat and I like him, and his wife, but believe me, I also believe that looking at his record as a Congressman, looking at his record as the Governor of this State that certainly I can commend him to you as one who with John Williams will make a great pair of Senators for the State of Delaware. I commend him and urge you to support him in this election campaign. [Applause.] Now, as he moves to the Senate, I was delighted to find that my friend, John Rollins, who is now the candidate for Governor and for the whole splendid State ticket, I am glad they are here on the platform. Let us show them what we think of them, too, for the purpose of this meeting. [Applause.] And, last, but not certainly least, to Jim McKinstry, our candidate for Congress, a young man, a man who is on his way up who will be I am sure, a fine Congressman and a great leader of this State and the Nation. Altogether then, we have on the ticket here in Delaware men of whom you can be immensely proud and, I can assure you, candidates with whom I am proud to stand here as a fellow candidate. Why do I mention it? You know many times people say to me, "Mr. Nixon, you know after all you are running for President. You want the votes of everybody, everybody you can get, and you know these lesser candidates or candidates for lower office, some of them friends that might vote for you and others who might on the other hand be alienated by your supporters." I want to say this: I am for these men because of their ability, not just because they are members of my party. I also believe that it is the responsibility of whoever is running for a national office to help to build the responsibility of his own party as he travels throughout the country, So I am proud to be here with them, and I urge you, as you work and vote for a President of the United States, to remember every office is important. Don't get so excited by the Presidency that you forget the candidate for the Senate and the House of Representatives and the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor and the like. That is why I mentioned them so that we realize in this country the tremendous importance of government at all levels. Now, I would like to talk about my own candidacy. I would like to talk about it in terms that I have spoken of before in visiting the State of Delaware. There are probably many in this audience who have heard me speak on each occasion; and on each occasion if you may recall, in 1952, again in 1956, I have emphasized that when we elect a President of the United States in this country, we have a standard through the years which is different from other offices; it is a standard certainly which this year all of you must follow because of the tremendous burdens of the responsibilities the next President of the United States will have. Let me put it this way: It would be very easy for me to say to this group here today that if you are a Republican, vote for me because I am a Republican. I do not put the case that way. I believe today that as we elect the next President and Vice President of the United States that it is essential that all of us think not of the party first but of the country first, and I submit our case to you on the basis what is best for America because that is what we need. [Applause.] I say that because whatever the next President will do, whatever his responsibilities may be, it will require the man who is best qualified by experience, regardless of his party. So I say to the people of Delaware it isn't enough to vote as your father did, or as your grandfather did, or as somebody's party label tells you to vote. It isn't enough simply to say, well, somebody else indicated that this man or that man might be the best man to vote for. You make up your own minds. America needs from its people today the most intelligent decision they can possibly make on the Presidency of the United States, and, therefore, I submit to you today my qualifications, that of my running mate, in that spirit. First, what is the greatest issue that you must consider? That issue, I think all of you will agree, is the issue of the survival of this Nation and of the cause of freedom for which America came into the world to preserve. I say that is the great issue for obvious reasons. We can have the best jobs and the best social security and the best housing that we can possibly imagine and it all will mean nothing at all if we become involved in a nuclear disaster that destroys us all and destroys the world. And so I say the first test you must apply to me and my colleague, and to my opponent and his colleague, is this: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency are best qualified by experience, by judgment, by background to keep the peace for America, to keep that without surrender and to extend freedom throughout the world? This is the greatest in this campaign. [Applause.] Now, I submit to you our qualifications on that issue. First, you must judge us by our experience. Cabot Lodge, my running mate, and I, for the last 7 years have been participating in the meetings of the Cabinet, in the meetings of the National Security Council and in other discussions with the President of the United States. In other words, in the field of foreign policy the record is one that we have helped to make and, therefore, you must hold us accountable for that and for whatever credit you give. We, of course, were entitled to the credit as well as along with others who have participated in the making of that record. Now you are going to hear a lot of [indistinguishable] and a lot about the record of the Eisenhower administration in the field of foreign policy. We have been hearing about what is wrong with what the President has been doing. He has made a mistake here and he has made a mistake there. America has been engaging in policies that have resulted, they said, in retreat and defeat throughout the free world and all over the area in which this struggle is taking place today. So what is the judgment that you must make? All that I can say in answer to the criticisms is you look at what the situation was 7 years ago. You consider what has happened and you know the American people are not dumb, they are not going to be fooled; they know that when we came into office 7½ years ago this Nation was at war. They know that under the leadership of President Eisenhower we got America out of one war, we have kept her out of others and we do have peace without surrender today, and they want that kind of leadership in the years ahead. [Applause.] Now I realize that there are those that say: "But Mr. Nixon, that is the past, what about these charges that American prestige has been slipping? What about the charges that have been made particularly by our opponents with regard to what the Soviets are doing, the gains they are making throughout the world?" I think they were best summed up by my opponent when he was speaking in upper New York a few days ago. I remember exactly what he said, and I will quote him exactly without notes, incidentally. [Applause.] He said, summing up a speech on foreign policy in which he had found everything wrong with what we were doing, America was becoming second rate up and down the line in education and science and the like and we were at fault. He then said we have been losing the initiative around the world and then finally these words: "I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Khrushchev is doing, I am tired of reading in the paper what Mr. Castro is doing, I want to be able to read in the paper what the President of the United States is doing." Let me tell you something, folks. If he would just stop talking and start reading, he would find out what President Eisenhower has been doing. [Applause.] Now he has not been doing some of the things that my opponent has suggested. He didn't, for example, make the fatal error, and it would have been a fatal error, of drawing the line in the Pacific 5 years ago as 12 Senators, including my opponent, asked him to do, a line that would have abandoned to Communist imperialism some islands of freedom, a line, by drawing it, which would have resulted in not satisfying them but whetting their appetite as it did in Korea, encouraging them to attack and ask for more. He didn't do that. And also he has not been doing some of the things that Mr. Khrushchev has been doing to get his name in the paper. He has not been taking his shoes off in the United Nations and pounding the table with them, for example. [Applause.] He has not been making a fool of himself in the world. He has not been attempting to muscle into the Congo unilaterally as has Mr. Khrushchev. No, the President of the United States has maintained himself with dignity, he has not been apologizing or expressing regrets for defending the security of the United States against surprise attack. [Applause.] The President has been doing what all Americans want a President to do, he has been firm for the right as has Mr. Khrushchev been firm for the wrong. He has been firm without being belligerent; he has not answered insult by insult because, my friends, when you are strong, when you are confident that you are right you don't get down in the level with a man like Khrushchev or anybody else in the world. [Applause.] And so I say on the record, yes, America has had difficulties and we will continue to have them. Yes, Mr. Khrushchev and his Chinese allies are going to continue to stir up trouble but the question is not whether you have difficulties, it is how you handle them and we think the record is a good one and we are proud of it but let's move from there. Why do I say that my colleague and I can lead America in these critical years ahead? Well, first look at us and our experience. We begin by knowing Mr. Khrushchev. You know how we will react to him because we have sat opposite at the conference table. And knowing Mr. Khrushchev we know him to be, and I will tell you today, a ruthless, fanatical man who has only one object and that is to conquer the world for communism. And Mao Tse-tung is the same and all the Communists believe in this. Therefore in dealing with him we have to follow certain policies and these are those policies if I may sum them up briefly. One, America must be the strongest Nation in the world militarily. Now we are the strongest Nation in the world militarily today and I want to say to you that we intend to maintain that strength and as President of the United States that will come first above everything else and we will continue to increase our strength so that Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else will never dare start anything any place in the world against the forces of freedom and peace. [Applause.] Second, we will continue the diplomacy of this country firm, firm without being belligerent. Why? Because that is the way of peace and it is the way to avoid war. It is so easy for the well-intended people to suggest that this line or that one might be more flexible and might bring a solution to the problem, but, my friends, again we have to deal with this man as he is, not as we would want him to be as he is, not according to standards that would be followed by free world statesmen, because as you look at him, as you look at his colleague we find that the same pattern exists with him as it did with Hitler and every dictator throughout history. What does this mean? In dealing with a dictator you must not under any circumstances make a concession without getting one in return because the result is to feed his appetite and whet his appetite and that means it encourages him to engage in exactly the kind of aggression that we are trying to avoid. The next point that I would like to make everybody in this great audience will understand. We must not only keep America strong militarily, we must not only be firm diplomatically, this will hold the line against Communist aggression throughout the world, we must do more than that in this period of the sixties. We have to mount a great offensive for freedom. How do we do that? That means that economically, ideologically America must be the strongest Nation in the world and we must win those people throughout the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain who will be on our side if we are strong in our economy and strong also in the ideals which we hold. Speaking of economic strength, what is the position of America today? Well, now, you have been hearing about how America's economy has been standing still for the last 7½ years. All that I can say, my friends, is that anybody who says that our economy has been standing still for the last 7½ years has not been traveling around America, he has been traveling in some other country. Look here at Wilmington, look at Delaware, look at the new industry, all of the things that have happened here in the last 7½ years. Yes, America is moving forward and has moved forward and we will move forward more in the next 4 years if we get the opportunity. [Applause.] What must we do to move America forward? Why do I say that our programs will move her forward where our opponents' will not? I will tell you why. Because our philosophy will work and theirs won't. Their solution to every problem whether it is schools or housing or any other area is to say, we will turn the whole thing over to the Federal Government. They lack confidence in individuals, confidence in the State and local government, but we will turn to Washington and we will set up a huge new program to handle this problem. Sounds good, doesn't it? You are not going to have to do anything, the States are not going to have to do anything, the Federal Government is going to take care of this problem. The only trouble is it does not work. We tried that philosophy in the 7 Truman years and we had enough of it then and we don't want to go back to it now, we want to go forward with what we have been doing. [Applause.] What will work? What is the way to progress in America? It isn't to start with the Federal Government and work down to the people, the way to progress in this country is to start with the people and work up to the Federal Government. That is the way to progress in this country. [Applause.] Because you see, look around you again. The uncommon men who have made America, the uncommon women, those with the opportunities, they have created the tremendous wealth that Americans have. And it is because our policies will stimulate individual enterprise, not blunt it. It is because our policies do not rely simply on the Government in Washington but says that Washington should do everything that it could to stimulate what individuals do. This is why we will continue to move America forward where their policies would grind her to a standstill. And let me say finally in that respect that there is much that remains to be done because as we move forward all Americans must move together. We must leave none behind. We must have all the resources of this country, the human resources, the natural resources, and our program and our platform will do that. It will do it in the way that all Americans want this country to move forward in this critical period. And now the last point that I would make, we have been speaking of economic progress. I am convinced that if we have faith in our system, faith in ourselves, that America can have the greatest economic progress in history; that much as we have done in the last 7½ years the next period can make even that appear small by comparison. But, my friends, the economic strength of this country and its military strength alone is not enough if we are to win this struggle for freedom to which I have referred. We have got to be strong in our ideals. It is those ideals that will win the struggle for the world, and those ideals come from you. They come from the schools, they come from the churches, they come from the homes of America. What are they? Our faith in God, our belief in the dignity of all men and all women our belief that the rights that men have to freedom, to equality of opportunity, that those rights are sacred rights, that they come not from men but from God and therefore cannot be taken away by men; our belief that all nations have a right to be independent, that all people have a right to be free. These things you have heard from the time you were in school but may I say we must never get tired of saying them, we must never get tired of hearing them because a burning faith in America and in her ideals is what we need if we are going to defeat those who stand for slavery and injustice throughout the world. This is what we need if we are going to win. [Applause.] So I say to you, keep America strong at home, militarily and economically; but above all see that our young people grow up with the burning faith in our country, in her ideals, recognizing that America is a first-rate country in every respect and not second rate, recognizing that American ideals caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago in the American Revolution and that the American Revolution still goes forward and that it is the American Revolution, not the Communist revolution, that is the way of the future. This is what we must believe and it is this cause that my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I ask for your permission to lead in these years ahead, and with your help we can lead to victory without war to a better life for our people and for all the people of the world. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
In our country collective bargaining is a shining demonstration of democracy in action - a key symbol of our free economic life. Believing in the integrity of this process, this administration told labor on one hand and management on the other - you settle your differences; we will not interfere - we are taking the Federal Government out of the collective bargaining business. It has been our stand that the influence of the executive branch is not going to be thrown on one side or the other, for when it is, you make a mockery of free collective bargaining, as events in the Truman administration amply demonstrated. Our faith in this system has been proved time and time again. For one example, the ratio of man-days lost to man-days worked because of strikes since 1952 is half that lost in the 7 years prior to 1952 - a fact of tremendous meaning to labor and management alike. The national emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act have performed creditably, but the President needs certain additional powers to protect the American people against national emergency strikes. Under present law, the powers of the Government can be brought to bear only when a national emergency in fact exists. After the 80-day injunction period has been consumed and the strike is resumed, the President can submit a report to Congress along with his recommendations. Thus, the final decision as to whether the Government should use its full power to settle a dispute is placed, not on one man in the White House, but on the people themselves through their elected representatives. I completely agree with that principle and would preserve it. I am completely opposed to the proposal of Senator Kennedy that the President be granted the power to seize a major industry. Power of this kind should continue to reside in the people, and should be exercised by Congress only when a crisis warrants it. The Taft-Hartley Act does need amendment in two respects, however. First, the President should be given the statutory power to convene a factfinding board when a major dispute ensues - at any time he sees fit. This process should function as a regular part of the mediation activities of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and outside of the emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. The factfinding board should be empowered to call hearings, to subpoena witnesses and testimony, and to produce a public record of the issues and the positions of both parties. The board would not have the power to make recommendations for settlement unless both parties specifically agreed that it should assume such power. The purpose of the board would be to clarify the issues before a major dispute develops into a national emergency, for the public is often lost in a cloud of propaganda from both sides. Second, the law should be amended so that a board convened under the Taft-Hartley provisions could make recommendations before an injunction has been sought. In the event that public pressures should fail and an emergency occur, the present law empowers the President to convene a fact-finding board which reports to him. But under present law, this board cannot make recommendations. Obviously, the board should be able to make recommendations. It would move up the timetable, so the Government could act before the injunctive process becomes necessary. The President would place the recommendations before the parties, in clear view of the public, before the 80-day injunction begins. In his speech to the Steelworkers Union recently Senator Kennedy suggested two ways of dealing with emergency disputes. His first would "leave with labor and management in specific critical industries responsibility for establishing their own settlement procedures" whenever they cannot agree on the terms of a new contract by collective bargaining. They would do this, presumably, in advance of the time when alternative procedures were needed; once needed it would be too late to try them. In effect, this proposal asks labor and management in critical industries to agree on a procedure for a settlement if they cannot agree on the settlement itself. This is utterly unrealistic. Major disputes are rarely settled by resort to a number of bargaining methods and a variety of procedures. They are settled by economic pressure or the pressure of public opinion. Senator Kennedy's first proposal asks labor and management to deny themselves the means to exert pressure, on one or the other, from the outside. No labor leader and no management representative would agree to a settlement if he thought he had a better chance to win his terms by going to the outside. That is the lesson of both common sense and experience. Senator Kennedy's second proposal - in the event the private procedure should break down - is presented in the terms of a question: "Why should we be armed only with the power to enjoin labor when there is a whole arsenal of other weapons available - including mediation, factfinding with and without public recommendations, temporary Government operations, retroactive pay orders, and the right not to interfere at all?" I take it Senator Kennedy's words, "temporary Government operations" are meant to sound more palatable than plain seizure," but the meaning is the same. When this list first appeared on October 9, 1959, during the steel strike, in a speech Senator Kennedy prereleased before delivery at Fayette City, Pa., that same paragraph read this way: "These measures should include mediation, factfinding, seizure, compulsory arbitration, injunctions with or without retroactive clauses and right not to interfere at all." I referred to this language in my third debate with Senator Kennedy. Now the Senator announces he did not see his speech until after the public had it. He said he ignored his released views; he is not for compulsory arbitration after all. This makes it risky to assume that the rest of what he said to the steelworkers is his own thinking, not his advisers'. Even so, if Senator Kennedy still wants to seize American industry, he can't logically be against compulsory arbitration too. His present position leaves him willing to club errant management around but unwilling to chasten errant labor. It leaves him willing to strike with his right hand but not with his left hand. The President should not be given the power to strike with either hand. Inherent in such power is the power, certain to develop later, to destroy free collective bargaining.  What Senator Kennedy proposed boils down to this; the President would have every power he would need to settle major labor disputes, including a power not to act, which would intimidate the parties into settlement because they feared what he might do if and when he did act. My opponent might as well state the truth; as President he would settle major labor disputes himself, holding in his hands the power of decision. That federalistic approach fits his concepts in other areas as well.  I reject the notion of clothing the Presidency with such wide powers for discretionary use. Instead I believe we should rely upon practical amendments which would do the job but avoid the federalizing of collective bargaining, avoiding the political chicanery that in the past brought this entire system to the brink of ruin.
Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen: I first want to express my appreciation to the National Association of Business Economists for giving me the opportunity to speak to this audience, and particularly during the course of a political campaign. I know that this is a nonpolitical organization. I would like to say that my speech is nonpolitical, but I can only say this: That any speech made by a candidate in the course of a campaign cannot really and truly be described as nonpolitical. I will say this, however, that any political comments that I make today will be solely for the purpose of distinguishing my own economic philosophy and program and describing it for you, and oftentimes, as I know you learn, in attempting to describe one philosophy, it is necessary to compare it with another. Consequently, my political references will be limited to that, and I trust that will be in accord with the rules of the organization. Secondly, I would like to say that I have the custom generally, a custom which my opponent for the Presidency also follows to a great extent, of speaking generally to audiences not from a prepared text. This, of course, we find not only the most effective way to present views, particularly where we have huge rallies and the like, but also, depending on the individual, some people read better, some people talk better. On this particular occasion, I welcome the opportunity to read from a prepared text. I do so (1) because of the character of the audience; (2) because of what I consider the importance of the statement. When I say importance, I speak not of the fact that I expect you to agree with all the ideas I will present, not that I expect you to conclude that the ideas are necessarily novel or new or imaginative or bold - these are the terms we often hear during the course of a campaign - but because I think it is vitally important before an election that, as a matter of record the candidate's views on all major economic problems particularly be laid before the people, just as his views on foreign policy problems. While I consider this to be not a definitive study in depth of all economic problems, some of the things I say today, I am sure, to an audience as sophisticated as this will seem to be perhaps not as exploratory as they should be, but it will represent my own economic thinking. It will give to you and it will give through the medium of the press who are covering this meeting an opportunity to see what one candidate for the Presidency would do, in the event he were elected, in the field of economic policy. I begin by relating this whole discussion to the competition we're in in the world. There is no question but if there were no communism in the world, we would still want a strong economy in America. However, we are not alone in the world, as we know it, militarily, economically, or ideologically. We are in a desperate race with fanatic and ruthless people running against us, people who are behind, but people who are determined to catch up, and, therefore, in order to win this race, America must not only do well in its economy; it must do as well as it can, and that is the theme of the first part of my remarks today. To meet the Communist threat to our way of life, we must begin by being strong in our national resolve. We must be strong, too, in the means to carry out our national will. Now, what are these means? They can be generated, in my opinion, only by a healthy, vigorously growing, free economy. Now, that kind of an economy will not only provide the resources to secure freedom in the world; it will also demonstrate that freedom works to meet the national needs of our people and to provide the economic base for deepening our cultural and our spiritual life. Let us begin by agreeing - I trust you will agree - that we Americans have developed the most remarkable and productive economic system in the world, and that fact cannot be obscured by the calculated campaign how underway to develop what I would call a national inferiority complex about our economy and other aspects of life in America. Needless to say, as I have indicated, we must be keenly alert to the economic challenge of the Soviets. Because the Soviets are in a much earlier stage of economic development, they are now showing a faster growth rate than we are, though not as fast as Russian propaganda would like us to believe. Also, as a totalitarian state, the Soviet Union is in a better position to allocate more of its output to state purposes; but as the Soviet economy increases in size in maturity, the rate of growth will, of course, be expected to diminish. We should also keep in perspective and not forget this fact: The American economy today is producing, by any standard, I think, that we would take, more than twice what the Soviet economy is producing. We do face a serious challenge, but we are ahead, well ahead, and we can stay ahead if we are energetic, if we are imaginative, and if we are wise. Now, what about the charge that for the last 8 years we have been standing still? Well, my answer to that is that anyone who says America has been standing still for the last 8 years has not been traveling in America. Today almost 68 million Americans are at work in this $500 billion economy. They're earning more; they're consuming more, saving more, investing more, providing more support for science, education, and health than ever before in our history. Just consider for a moment, if you will, the progress America has made during these past 8 years, as compared with the previous 8 years, or, should I say, 7½ years, to be exact. Take rate of growth. The rate of growth in gross national product, measured in dollars of constant purchasing power, has almost doubled under this administration, compared to the rate of growth in the previous 7 years - 20 percent over these 7 years; 11 percent in the previous 7 years. Take the share of national income going to wage earners, to employees. It has gone up under this administration. It went down under the previous administration. Take weekly industrial earnings in constant dollars. They've gone up five times as much in this administration as in the previous one. The consumer price level another index - it's gone up only one-fifth as much in this administration as in the previous one. Expenditures for education - twice as much for them. Expenditures for scientific research and development - more than doubled. Expenditures for the support of health - sharply increased. We could go on. What I am trying to say is that this has been a record of moving forward, of stepping up progress everywhere, from what we found when we assumed responsibility for affairs in 1953 - and it definitely has not been a period of stagnation. It has not been a period of standing still. Now, the temptation here would be to say, as we say in the political game, we will stand on the record, but, as I have often said, a record is never something to stand on; it's something to build on. This is particularly true in view of what I said at the outset. We're in a race. We cannot be satisfied with our record, good as it may be, at home, and we are not satisfied. We must do better. We can do better. The challenges facing us abroad and at home require that we quicken our advance and utilize our resources more fully to that end. We approach this task with an economic program that springs from faith in and concern for Americans as individuals. The purpose of our program is to release to the full the greatest productive force in human affairs, and that is the spirit of individual enterprise in 180 million Americans. The purpose of our program is to provide equal opportunity for every American to better himself, to free life more and more from the stunting effect of economic need, and we seek to make it possible for every individual in this Nation to be somebody, to have something. Now, going along with this faith in the individual as an abiding concern, a concern for his problems as a human being - the possible loss of a job and livelihood through no fault of his own when the economy changes; the fear that the end of his working years may mean poverty, that the loss of a breadwinner may mean destitution for the widow and children; the cost of medical care in old age: These are some of the searing human concerns that our program aims to minimize through effective private and public measures. Such efforts toward personal security, first, are right - not only from the humanitarian viewpoint, which all of us will understand; they are mandatory if our complex modern society is to work at its best, at its fullest. They are essential to our purpose. And what is that purpose? I think, summed up in a sentence, it is this: We must lift the ceiling over personal opportunity. We must strengthen the floor over the pit of personal disaster. Public policy therefore, should seek to put right what is wrong in our America, but it should also seek to strengthen what is right. It should recognize the plain fact that Americans are proud and self-reliant individuals. Programs that encourage individuals to depend on government are wrong, for increasing dependence by a people upon government is not a sign of strength; it is a sign of weakness, and in this day of competition with the Communists, Americans must be sturdy and strong. Our strength, in other words, as compared with the Soviet Union, is in our individuals, in our people. Theirs is primarily in their Government. Therefore, in this vital task, Government's role should be to carry out those functions which the private sector cannot or could not or will not do as well. Government should try to make the enterprise system work better. It should not try to supplant it with centralization. The rule should be as much freedom as possible; as little intervention by Government as needed. The reason: While the power of every other group in our society is secondary and can be controlled by checks and balances, the power of Central Government tends to be absolute. It tends to be ultimate, and that is why we insist on a clear showing of need for the extension of power in the Central Federal Government. Now, guided by these general guidelines of philosophy, we can build the action programs that will bring about the mobilization - and this is what we need; nothing less - the total mobilization - of America's human and natural resources in order to speed our economic progress in the battle for peace and freedom in the world. I have proposed programs in many fields during the course of this campaign. I will propose others. I should like to list those programs, all of them, for you here today. First, to mobilize all our human resources, we must make equality of opportunity a living reality for our Negro citizens, and those of other minority groups. Tremendous untapped resources for the economy can be released by eliminating the barriers of racial discrimination that now deny these citizens full opportunity to develop and use their talents. Second, we must stimulate our national scientific effort so we can open new vistas for economic activity, for the scientific revolution that is exploding all about us. That is why the next Congress, as I have indicated in my paper on science, should authorize the National Science Foundation to take the leadership in sponsoring a major new effort for basic research. I believe this program should be conducted through a group of basic research institutes spread throughout the country, but established cooperatively with our universities. A sound program can aid the basic research man who is, as all of you realize, one of the most precious national resources in his efforts to achieve the breakthroughs upon which the rest of our science and technology depend. To find and develop talent in America and thus avoid the waste of a potentially superior scientist, engineer, teacher, minister, or doctor, we need also a program in the field of education, an intensified one. We must widen opportunities for all. We must improve the quality of educational effort. We must enhance the status of our teachers. To that end, I have proposed a national program in support of education, emphasizing such elements as college scholarships for those who cannot under any circumstances afford to borrow and to pay back, tax credits or deductions to cover tuition and other costs of higher education, aid in school construction to provide needed facilities, and thereby to release local funds for raising teachers' salaries - all of this, however, particularly at the secondary and primary level, to be accomplished without compromising local controls of our school system. To stimulate the growth potential of our economy, I believe we should reform our tax system. We do this to enhance personal incentives, to speed the investment in new plants and equipment that makes jobs and spurs productivity. In this time of challenge to the American economy, taxes designed in an earlier time and still in the law to punish success are now obsolescent. They hobble the Nation's advance. We need a tax system that will move toward some revision in personal and corporate rates, reform and depreciation allowances, a broader base for excises, at a rate well below those now in effect, protection of State and municipal revenues. These and other things would contribute substantially to a better environment for economic growth. Next, to provide the base for rapid economic progress, we must develop to the full the land and power and water resources with which this Nation is so abundantly blessed. Now, this must be a maximum national effort. This does not mean a total Federal effort. It must be a national maximum effort in which government at all levels and private enterprise, where it can or will do the job, work closely together as a team. It does not mean making of this challenging task of developing our resources a Federal monopoly. Next, to supply the indispensable food and fiber needs of a growing economy, we must rebuild our farm programs, rebuild them to make them a national asset, make a national asset particularly of the matchless ability of our farmers to produce, and to do so in a way that fairly rewards them in providing this abundance. We can have plenty of freedom on the farm, and I reject the appalling alternative offered by our opponents, which, in my opinion, is a comprehensive blueprint for planned scarcity that would require drastic cutbacks in farm marketing and production, unprecedented controls on the farmer, and sharply higher food costs in the cities and towns of America. And now to permit our cities to serve as impulse centers and not choke points for economic growth, I believe we need a dynamic urban renewal program, motivated locally, but assisted federally. It should be based on a market-area approach that contemplates a long-range land-use and transportation plan. As a part of this effort, we must foster expansion of residential renewal and new housing. We also need improved criteria for Federal assistance in the whole renewal program. The purpose of my overall approach, which I have already stated in a paper, is to maximize private investment through prudent public action. To maximize our growth potential, we must attack the stubborn problems of depressed areas through sensible, co-operative Federal-local effort. This can be done. It can be done if the opposition will cease its pork-barrel approach to this vital matter that led to Presidential veto. It can be done if we concentrate on a bill that will help those areas that really need help. To keep the economy fit, efficient, and competitive at home and abroad, and thus capable of healthy growth, we must attack featherbedding, featherbedding in all its forms, wherever it appears. That includes bureaucratic waste and inefficiency that obstructs orderly and efficient government at all levels. It includes the make-work mentality still surviving in some quarters of labor. It includes pricing practices by business which are not fully geared to maximize dollar values. It includes inflationary wage settlements in labor-management negotiations that involve overpaying ourselves for the work we do. The dynamic quality of our economy can be further enhanced by vigorous, but fairminded enforcement of the antitrust laws. It can be improved by an imaginative outward looking policy in international trade, especially in this day of growing common marketism throughout the world. Efficiency can be spurred by keeping the economy open and constantly renewing those stimuli to growth which come from new business and small business. The productivity of our economy can be stepped up by full exploitation of the rapid technological developments being generated the Nation's outstanding and astounding progress in research and development. In order to deal with the problems created by automation, especially on their impact on the workers affected, we need special efforts. We all agree with this: The question is, What efforts would be most effective? I do not believe that an overall top-level meeting of all union and industrial and Government leaders, such as our opponents suggest, is the best approach. The problems posed by automation vary too much as between different industries to benefit by such general talkfests of this character. I intend, instead, to convene working sessions for each major critical industry under the leadership of the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Commerce. These sessions will have as their purpose to analyze the problem in those industries as it is unique to them and to develop a program for action and assistance in dealing with the problem of automation. Now, to help keep our money honest, we must practice rigorous economy. We must exercise strict control over the Federal budget. We must thwart attempts clearly foreshadowed in opposition discussion to undermine the independence of the Federal Reserve System in its efforts to pursue a flexible monetary policy geared to the Nation's changing needs. The crucial question here, I want to emphasize, is not one of tight money versus easy money. It's not one of high interest rates versus low interest rates, but it's whether monetary and credit conditions are such as to maintain prosperity in growth. History has demonstrated clearly for anyone who wants to learn from history that monetary policy makes its largest contribution to prosperity when it is flexible enough to put a damper on speculative activity in boom periods and to spur expansion in slack periods. Now, those who loudly demand easy credit and artificially low interest rates at all times and under all circumstances are practically inviting foreign banks and investors to pull out the billions of dollars that they now hold here on deposit or in short-term paper. If such a sequence of events should ever develop as a result of cheap money dogmatists coming to high public office, we would have a totally stupid and, in my opinion, unnecessary gold crisis which would be brought on, a crisis which could be disastrous not only for America, but for the entire free world. A prime requisite of the ability to govern is the ability of modern governments to keep their money straight. To protect economic growth against the threats of inflation and recession, Government must act in a timely and vigorous way under the mandate of the Employment Act of 1946. We need an early warning economic intelligence system. Through flexible use of fiscal and credit policies, including tax adjustments, if necessary, we can do much to protect the economy against threats to stable growth caused by changes in the economic cycle. Achieving this task would be greatly aided, in my opinion, if the Employment Act were amended to include reasonable price stability as a major or purpose of Federal policy under the act and if our unemployment insurance system were substantially strengthened. To coordinate in a better fashion the various Government efforts bearing on the promotion of a healthy economic growth, I believe that the time has come for the establishment of new machinery in the executive branch. I state this based on my experience as Chairman of the President's Committee on Price Stability and Economic Growth. I believe now that we need a National Economic Council to advise the President on economic matters at the same level and with the same stature as the National Security Council presently advises him on national security matters, recognizing, of course, that national economic matters are related to national security matters, and there will be some overlap. I want to make it clear, however, that this Council will, under no circumstances, infringe on the independence of the Federal Reserve System, something apparently which the opposition seems bent on doing, and which is already causing concern in responsible circles both here and abroad. Now, let's look at this program. It represents, in my opinion, a proper role for Government in fostering sustainable growth in our economy. It emphasizes that the Government undertake, not the least things or the most things, but the right things. It does not speak of target growth rates, for if we pursue the right policies, if we pursue them imaginatively and vigorously, the resulting growth rate will be right. This program reflects a confident outlook, too, as to what Americans can do. It's based on a conviction, a conviction that a nation's wealth can best be multiplied by the efforts of its individual citizens. It seeks to invigorate the traditional strengths of our free economy - initiative and investment, productivity and efficiency. It seeks to strengthen, not weaken, the role of local and State governments. It rejects the false and simple theory that Americans somehow can be governed into perpetual prosperity. It spurns the idea that the worth of a Government program is to be measured by how much and how many Federal dollars are to be spent on it. It repudiates the notion that we can meet the economic problems of the sixties with retreads of depression-born ideas of the thirties. Americans cannot view the future by using a rear-view mirror. Our program calls, in other words, for a national economic policy that is forward looking, that is based on the energies and the hopes and the initiative of 180 million Americans, and one that evokes their best efforts. I believe it is the best way to progress for America. Speaking as a candidate for public office, it is not the easy way. It is not the easiest program to present. It may not be the most popular way at the moment. It's much easier to be for low interest rates at all times than for high and low, depending upon what the economy requires. It's much easier to say to the individual citizen where a problem is concerned: "Don't be concerned about this problem, the Federal Government will handle it." It's much easier to say whenever a problem is involved that my program is more and I care more for you because I will spend more money, your money, of course, to handle this particular program.  It's much easier certainly in the tax field to talk not about tax reform that will stimulate jobs and investment, that will move in the field of corporate tax and also individual taxes in the higher level. It's much easier to have a tax program which would simply be one that would reduce the rates in the lower brackets and would not stimulate the economy to the extent that the other would.  What I am really trying to say is this: That the program that I have outlined - not the easiest; not the simplest - it's much simpler, for example, as far as government is concerned, to bypass the States and the local governments. As a matter of fact, if we want a program that is simple, it would be easier if we had no Congress, because then whoever made the decisions at the executive level wouldn't have to bother to get it through the Congress.  What am I trying to say? What appears to be the simple way to progress in America, what appears to be the easiest way, is not necessarily the right way. The right way is to tap all the resources of America. The right way is for the Federal Government to stimulate rather than stump the creative activities of our citizens.  The right way is to put responsibility on individuals rather than take it off.  And I want to tell you finally why I feel so strongly on this particular issue. Needless to say, like my very able opponent, I would like to be elected. It would be much easier for me to make the promises that he does, but I am convinced as I stand here, from having traveled through the world, that if America turns that way, if America turns toward federalization basically of these institutions in our economy, if we turn away from individual enterprise and turn more and more to Federal enterprise, that it will be the wrong way and that it will result in America falling behind in this great race for survival in which our economy plays a part. It's because I believe this, and I believe it strongly, that I take a position that I recognize could be much more popular politically if I were to follow the line that my opponent is taking. And, so, here's the economic philosophy that I believe Americans should follow in the future. My final point is this: This is not a Republican philosophy. It's bigger than the Republican Party. I believe it's as big as America, itself. I believe that if you read Thomas Jefferson, Woodrow Wilson, the two philosophers who are looked upon as those who developed the great ideas of the Democratic Party, that these views that I have expressed are more in accord with their thinking than are the views expressed in the platform of our opponents. And, so, now, having delineated the problem, may I say finally: I have appreciated your attention. I have appreciated particularly the fact that you have listened while I have discussed some matters which I indicated at the moment that to a highly sophisticated audience would seem to be not those that would be at the level that you would expect, but it seems to me tremendously important that those of us who have responsibilities in the field of public affairs attempt to inform the public what we believe, that we attempt to put it in language that they can understand so that the American people will not make the mistake of turning the wrong way, because they may not understand why America has grown as it has, why it is the most productive nation in the world, and how it can be even more productive if it remains true to the principles that have made us great Thank you.
Governor ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President - you see, I'm already in the habit now; I've gotten a little premature - Mr. Vice President, for the moment, though The VICE PRESIDENT. I'm the President of the Senate, so you're correct on that. Governor ROCKEFELLER. This question we have been talking about - defense - this is the thing, as that poll shows, that is of uppermost concern in people's minds. It's basic to peace. It's basic to what you have been discussing - the preservation of freedom, freedom in all parts of the world. I think one of the things people wonder about is: When we have done such a marvelous job under the Eisenhower administration, why is there this need for increased expenditure in the defense field, as we look ahead? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, the major reason for it is that the situation in the world has changed. For example, when we look at the Soviet Union today, we find that they are stepping up their capacity particularly with regard to missile capacity. Now, in view of that, it is essential that the United States not stand pat on what we're doing. We can't do that. We have to step up our retaliatory power so that if they should launch a surprise attack, regardless of how much surprise there is, that we will have enough power left after that attack to destroy their warmaking capabilities. Governor ROCKEFELLER. You mean, in other words, our retaliatory forces have got to be able to withstand an all-out attack and we have to have our bases strengthened and have enough planes in the air or available so we really can strike back in a way that will make it absolutely unprofitable from their point of view, even if they attack us in the beginning? The VICE PRESIDENT. It must be suicide for them to launch an attack. This is what we call the second strike capability. Governor ROCKEFELLER. Exactly. The VICE PRESIDENT. And I want to make it clear, while, as you have pointed out, as I have pointed out in speech after speech, the United States today is the strongest nation in the world, and that is the reason we have been able to guard the peace in these past 7½ years, that we could make no greater mistake than to rest on that strength. Because the Soviet Union is stepping up what it is doing we have to step up what we are doing. I want to make it clear, too, as I have in every statement in which I have discussed the defense matter, that I think that our defense expenditures are going to increase through the years ahead rather than go down, and we are going to have to be prepared to pay whatever is necessary to take care of those expenditures. I will add one other thing. Governor ROCKEFELLER. Yes. The VICE PRESIDENT. Of course, we are going to see to it that the people get a dollar's worth for every dollar we spend, but it's going to be expensive. Governor ROCKEFELLER. Well, Dick, that's where it ties in, as you and as I have talked and the rest of us so many times, with economic growth The VICE PRESIDENT. Right. Governor ROCKEFELLER (continuing). Because the Government at all levels - Federal, State, and local - takes about 20 percent of the national income now. Either we've got to take a larger percentage of the national income now or we have got to have a more rapid expansion in our country so the 20 percent will be a bigger picture and we will be able not only to take care of defense and foreign policy requirements, but also the job opportunities for a growing population and the desire for a higher standard of living an the Government's responsibilities for the various services which are rendered. The VICE PRESIDENT. Exactly. As a matter of fact, here again Americans can be very proud, and frankly, they can be very thankful that we are as rich and productive as we are. We have had a great deal of progress in the Eisenhower years, more progress than in any administration in history, but here again we're not alone in the world. We're in a race, and when you're in a race, a race with fanatical, ruthless enemies, we have got to be sure that we not only stay ahead, but that we move ahead, and so this means that we must tap all the resoures of this Nation. It means that we can't have any human resources that are not tapped adequately. That means giving everybody an opportunity to make his maximum contribution to the growth of America. Governor ROCKEFELLER. And be able to have jobs so that all of them have opportunity for employment and a higher standard of living, in addition to meeting these responsibilities? The VICE PRESIDENT. Exactly. Governor ROcKEFELLER. Well, the best of luck to you and Cabot, Dick. We're all with you. The VICE PRESIDENT. Thanks for your help. Governor ROCKEFELLER. OK, fellow.  * * * * * * * Senator JAVITS. Mr. Vice President, our platform adopted in Chicago, based upon the accord which you and Governor Rockefeller made in New York, I think is just about the strongest platform we've ever adopted on civil rights in history. Now for people like Ken and myself in the Senate, and the House of Representatives, to what legislative targets will you lead us as President of the United States in pursuance of this program? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, I will certainly insist on presenting to the Congress and getting every support that I can on a bipartisan basis for our platform as you know, delineates several areas where we must make progress - in the field of voting rights in the field of employment, and also in the whole general field of equality of opportunity, which we have been discussing and working for in the Senate for these past few years together. Senator JAVITS. Well, of course, your rulings opened the door to the consideration of civil rights bills on the floor of the Senate. They would have been buried in Senator Eastland's Judiciary Committee, as I think everybody knows, and your ruling on the Senate filibuster rule gave us the first opportunity in history to wage a fight on that. The VICE PRESIDENT. Let me just add one thing: One of the reasons for electing Cabot Lodge as Vice President of the United States is that he will be President of the Senate. He will make the same rulings that I made, and the very fact the Presiding Officer will make those rulings will mean that we can have civil rights legislation. With Lyndon Johnson as President of the Senate - he voted against every one of these rulings to which you referred. Senator JAVITS. Well I think you made that point crystal clear, because it bears on something else that interests us all What do you feel should be the moral leadership of the President? As you, yourself, have said and authorized me to quote you, the President should set the moral tone of the country. What do you define as the moral leadership on civil rights? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, first, of course, the President has the responsibility to speak to this issue when he can. He has the responsibility to act effectively in this field, at every opportunity, and in action I mean not only sending legislation down to the Congress for approval. That takes a long time. I mean, for example, acting as the Attorney General did on the sit-in strikes, getting chainstore operators into his office, and getting them voluntarily to do what everybody should do with regard to that - open up these counters so there will he equality of opportunity in that respect. Now, as far as the President is concerned, he can see that the whole tone of his administration is one of leading in those areas. Senator JAVITS. Well, now, Dick, one other question: There has been a lot of talk about opening the channels of communication between the races which is closed in many places in the South, for example, through the President taking the stronger moral stand you have described and perhaps even through a White House Conference on Civil Rights. Have you thought about that, as the President? The VICE PRESIDENT. I have thought about it. I would say this: That if we can determine that we can get enough cooperation, enough responsible leaders to come to a White House Conference on Civil Rights, I believe we should have it. I don't believe in simply having one for the sake of political argument, but I believe if we can get responsible people to come - and I would hope that we could - that such a Conference would bring progress in this field, progress before the law, operating so slowly, can produce it. Senator JAVITS. Then, of course, our program also calls, as you have emphasized time and again, for giving the Attorney General powers which we know our Attorney General will carry out to even go, in key cases, into school desegregation in areas where it is needed like the South. The VICE PRESIDENT. Exactly, and our Attorney General, I think, has a splendid record that even our partisan critics will not be able to find fault with. Senator JAVITS. Well, Dick, while I have campaigned hard in New York and other places in the Nation for our ticket, I'm going to continue to stress civil rights, bccause you have given us all heart and confidence that with us it is going to be performance and not campaign promises. The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Senator KEATING. We have heard a lot of talk from your opposition about the United States losing its prestige. How successful do you think Mr. Khrushchev was at the U.N. and did he pick up strength there? The VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that most of the people who are viewing or listening to this program know the answer to that question. A man who comes to the United Nations and takes off his shoes and makes a fool of himself - he may make news; he may think he has the initiative, but he isn't gaining prestige, not for his office and not for his country. As a matter of fact, I know that many of those who talked to African delegates after that particular meeting and that particular performance said that they were shocked and amazed at his performance. I think he set back the cause of communism not only in Africa, but in all the other uncommitted countries by his rude conduct at the U.N. Senator KEATING. Your opposition has also said that Cuba is lost, Mr. Vice President. Can we afford to cross off Cuba and concede it to the Communists? The VICE PRESIDENT. We certainly cannot, and we won't. As a matter of fact, this talk about the fact that Cuba is lost and that Ghana is lost, and Guinea is lost, incidentally - and they have also claimed that - is irresponsible in the extreme. Cuba is not lost. The fact that Castro, of course, is following a pro-Communist line at the present time causes us great concern, but there are plenty of things that we can do and are doing, and we're taking some very firm steps, as you know, to quarantine Castro in that area. I am convinced that those steps will be effective. I am also convinced that the 5 million people of Cuba, themselves, are learning what communism is under Castro, and that they, themselves, will get rid of him just as the Guatemalans got rid of their Communists. Senator KEATING. Tell me, Mr. Vice President: We have repeatedly heard you and your running mate say the only way to maintain the peace is by a policy of firmness. Why do you say that? The VICE PRESIDENT. Because we have learned in dealing with dictators that where you are weak militarily or weak diplomatically, you invite war, and where you're firm militarily and strong diplomatically, you keep the peace. That's the way it works. The Korean war was brought on by weakness diplomatically. In World War II, giving in to Hitler - Danzig, and Sudetenland, one time after another - everybody thought that was going to produce peace, those that were giving in, but all it did was to whet his appetite and he eventually did the very thing which was inevitable. He went a step too far, and we had to fight, and I say the time to stop the Communists is not at the time we have to fight, but to stop them now. We must not encourage them so that they can blackmail us by their aggressive actions and at gunpoint. Senator KEATING. Well, Mr. Vice President, it's my deep personal conviction that a Nixon-Lodge administration would have the great experience, the proven ability, and the know-how that it takes to handle the Communists in the cold war. Every success to you and Cabot Lodge in your campaign. The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you. With the help of you three, we can win New York. Senator KEATING. Thank you.
Dr. E. S. JAMES, Editor, Baptist Standard, Dallas, Tex.: You were most thoughtful to ask about my views on the separation of church and state and on Federal aid to public and private schools. As you know, the separation of church and state is not subject to discussion or alteration. Under our Constitution no church or religion can be supported by the U.S. Government. We maintain freedom of religion so that an American can either worship in the church of his choice or choose to go to no church at all. This complete freedom has opened the way for 103 million of our citizens to be members of 308,000 American churches. As for the use of Federal funds for aid to education, my position and my plans are based on these ideas. Traditionally, Federal funds have been provided in the field of higher education without regard to whether the aided institutions were public or private. The burdens on higher education have increased manyfold. At the same time there is no public commitment in our country to a free system of higher education comparable to that for the public schools. I believe we should continue to aid institutions of higher education, public and private, directly. There is, however, a public responsibility for elementary and secondary education, a responsibility which under our Constitution rests within the State. Therefore, any assistance which the Federal Government wants to give in the field of elementary and secondary education should be given to the States. It will then be up to each State to decide whether Federal funds given to each State should be used for both public and private schools. With all good wishes, RICHARD M. NIXON
Now, if I could turn to the campaign, to the issues, and of course, on this particular occasion I have the problem that always a presidential candidate has to select an issue to discuss of the great number that the American people are interested in, an issue of overriding importance, which will be one that all of you will want to know the position that I take, and I select tonight the issue that I discussed with Senator Kennedy last night. I select it because I believe it is the most important issue not only of this campaign, but of our time, of our generation, of this country. I select it because I know that the people of this State as the people of the other 49 States of the Union, want leadership which will continue to do what President Eisenhower has done, and for which the American people will be forever grateful to him, leadership that will keep the peace, keep it without surrender, leadership that will extend freedom, extend it without war, leadership which will make us proud of our Nation in the council of nations, leadership in which the President of the United States, when he goes to the United Nations, as a man of dignity, standing for disarmament, standing for progress, standing for helping the unfortunate people of the world, and gaining respect rather than making a fool out of himself as did Mr. Khrushchev when he was there at the United Nations - and I know that everybody in this audience, everybody listening to me on television and radio, recognizes that the problems are difficult, difficult not because of our choosing, difficult not because of the other peace-loving nations - and, fortunately, my friends, they are most of the nations in this world, our allies in Europe and in Asia, the so-called neutrals in Africa, and in South America, and in other countries. Certainly in this period we realize that the problems are difficult only because there is on the loose in the world a great aggressive force, a force which is fanatical which is ruthless, whose leaders do not follow the rules of international diplomacy, as we would like them to be followed, whose leaders - and I know them, and I speak from knowledge - are men who have one objective, and one only, and that is to conquer the world, conquer it without war, if they can, but willing to use any means, if that becomes necessary, and because when we have this kind of leadership, aggressive, always probing, always attempting to embarrass, always moving against us around the world, the period ahead is going to be a difficult one. I'm not going to stand before this or any other audience and say, "Lo I am the great leader who will solve all your problems. Just elect me and you can be sure that we're not going to have any more problems in Africa, Asia, Latin America. Elect me and give us enough money to spend and we'll solve all these problems." It isn't going to happen that way. It isn't going to happen that way, because when we deal with the problems that we have in the world today, we're going to have troubles. We're going to have them because they're going to make them, but the question is not whether we have troubles. The question is how we handle them, and we have been handling them well, and we're going to continue to handle them well in the next four years, if you give us the chance. Now, the major qualification of whoever is to be the next President of the United States is this: If he is going to keep the peace without surrender, and if we are going to be able to extend freedom without war, it is whether he understands our enemy. I mean those who are the enemies of peace and the enemies of freedom around the world. It is whether he understands their tactics and knows how to deal with them, because unless he has that understanding all the good intentions in the world will be nothing, because the road to war and the road to surrender on the other side have been paved with good intentions where dictators were concerned. It was true with Hitler. It was true with Stalin. It will also be true with Khrushchev. We not only need good intention, but we need the tough-minded understanding of the kind of people we're dealing with and that's what we offer, and that's what I say raises a grave question tonight in the minds of the American people with regard to our opponents. I'm going to talk very frankly about it. I feel it is my responsibility, my responsibility to the country, my responsibility also as a candidate for public office to tell you exactly why I think Cabot Lodge and I do offer some qualifications here that are needed to lead the world in this period. I don't mean that we have them all. I don't mean that we are supermen, but that we do offer some of those qualifications, and it is my responsibility also, as it is my opponent's, to point out those areas where I think he may lack the qualifications that the world needs, particularly in this time. There have been three great issues in which a grave doubt has been raised in the minds of the American people and in the minds of the people of the world as to whether my opponent in this campaign, the candidate of the other party, can keep the peace without surrender, can extend freedom throughout the world, and I give you those three examples in order of priority, but particularly; I would say not so much in order of priority as in order of historical sequence. First, there was a problem confronting the President of the United States in the year 1955. It didn't seem very important certainly to the people here, I imagine, in Allentown Pa., not very important to the people even in San Francisco, Calif.; but it was vitally important to the cause of peace and freedom in the world, because he the President of the United States, made a mistake in handling this problem, it could have led to the same tragic course of events that resulted in a war in Korea. Let me explain it briefly, the position my opponent took, the position the President and I took, why he was wrong, why we were right, and why we must go forward on our line and not on his. Here's what it was. The Chinese Communists were shelling some islands off the coast of China, Quemoy and Matsu, not very big islands, not very many people on them, but they were free. They were also military outposts for the island of Formosa, with which we have and the Government of Formosa has a pact to defend. And, so, my opponent in 1955 joined with a group, fortunately a very small one, of only 12 Senators out of the 96 Members of the Senate at that time in attempting to deny to the President of the United States the right to use the forces of this country to defend those islands in the event an attack were launched on them, and the President considered that an attack was actually an attack aimed at Formosa. In effect, they said, draw a line, draw a line excluding these islands, because we don't want to get into a war over those islands, and they said this would be the wrong war, at the wrong place, at the wrong time. And now what was the President's answer? The answer is one that all of us will understand. Is there a right war, at the right place, at the right time? The answer also is this: We had history here to look at. We went back to 1950, in 1950 exactly this same kind of muddy, woolly, thinking took place. Secretary Acheson, a very able man in many respects, particularly with his policies to Europe, but a man again who was blind in his policies to Asia - what did he do? He drew a line. He said, we will draw a line in the Pacific, and we will leave Korea out, this peninsula a militarily and potentially a very bad place to fight a war, the wrong war, the wrong place, the wrong time. And what happened? It didn't mean peace, but it led to war, because when you're dealing with a dictator and when you have an area of freedom and when you slice a bit off and say you can have this, if you leave us alone, it doesn't satisfy him. It only encourages him to push you again, and to ask for more. It led to war in Korea then, and so, the President of the United States, remembering that experience with the Communists, said, "No; we will not take the advice of those who say we will draw a line excluding two islands of freedom." We say that freedom, in effect, is indivisible when it comes to defense, particularly when the Communists say that these islands are, as they did say, certainly only an intermediate objective and that their real objective was Formosa, with whom we had our treaty. And, so, the President's position prevailed; the position Senator Kennedy took with the other 11 Senators was voted down, and for 5 years we have kept the peace in that area. For 5 years the Communists have dared not to attack Formosa. For 5 years it has worked, and yet again my opponent in 1959, in a speech, twice in our television debate, said, we should draw a line excluding these islands, draw a line because we don't want to get into a war about them. And, so, my first charge tonight is this: That a man who made a mistake in 1955, that it would have been tragic, which would have led to war or surrender, or both, in my opinion, who repeated it again in 1959, when the policy had been working, who repeated it again in 1960 when the policy had been working - that this raises a very grave question in the minds of the American people as to whether he understands what peace demands in dealing with the Communists. I'll tell you what it demands. You must never make a concession to them figuring that this is going to satisfy them. You must never do it because this kind of a concession only encourages them to blackmail you, and when you are dealing with men like this international blackmail eventually leads to war. So, on this score I say the American people raise a doubt. The second point: We come to the Paris Conference. The Paris Conference, you remember, was the one that Mr. Khrushchev broke up. He said he broke it up at the time because the President had ordered the U-2 flights, you recall, which were ordered to protect the security of the United States, to get information about whether there was a surprise attack being mounted against the United States, and at that time Mr. Khrushchev demanded that the President of the United States apologize or express regrets for those flights. The President of the United States refused. What did my opponent say? He said the President could have apologized or could have expressed regrets for those flights. He was wrong then. I'll tell you why he was wrong. He was wrong because an apology or expressing regrets to Khrushchev for something that we were doing to defend our own country would be wrong for any President, Republican or Democrat, and certainly it was wrong for President Eisenhower. He was wrong then because again this kind of tactic, you see, in dealing with a man like Khrushchev wouldn't have satisfied him. It wouldn't have saved the Conference. It would only have encouraged him to stomp on us again, because that's the way he operates. I know this. I have dealt with him. The President knows this. He has dealt with him. Again the President was right. Our opponent was wrong. So, here is a second point that raises a question about our opponent's judgment when these great problems come before him. The third is a current one. I want to discuss it in some detail tonight, because it's very close to the United States. It's very complex. It's terribly difficult. It involves a people, wonderful people, that are among the best friends Americans have. I don't know how many of you have ever been to Havana. My wife and I have been there several times, and each time we always marvel at the great friendship that the people of Havana, the Cuban people, have for the people of the United States, and yet what have we found there? The people of Cuba, the most misgoverned people perhaps in the American Hemisphere, or one of the worst governed; Batista, a dictator who came into power long before President Eisenhower came in, who was inherited by us from the previous administration, and as a result there were revolutionary forces that wanted to get rid of him, and Mr. Castro took over these revolutionary forces and a lot of well-intentioned people in the United States felt that Mr. Castro was the answer to Cuba's problem. He would get rid of this dictator, Batista. And, so, they thought this was going to mean the end of the dictatorship in Cuba; it would mean a real revolution for the Cuban people, the 5 million; it would give them the good things of life, which they deserve, and it would give it to them in freedom. But what happened? Mr. Castro was not a man truly interested in the Cuban people. He was not a man who brought a true revolution to the Cuban people. He was a man who brought and is bringing to the Cuban people a dictatorship, a slavery, which in some respects is even worse than that of Mr. Batista, the man that he threw out and deposed. So, now the question is: What are we going to do about Mr. Castro? How do we get rid of Mr. Castro? And here you have to have some statesmanship. Here you have to have some responsibility, and I want to say this: The easy thing for me to say would be to say, "We'll put the Marines down in Cuba and we'll get rid of Castro," and we could do it in 24 hours. You know what would happen if we did that? We'd lose every friend we have in Latin America. We would lose our moral position in the world, and the 5 million Cuban people would be the victims. So, we don't do that. And others say: "Well, why can't we do something else to get rid of this fellow, something stronger than we've been doing?" And again I say there are things that we can do, things that I have called for , things that the Government of the United States, fortunately, is doing, but there are some things that we can't do and shouldn't do, for reasons that I will mention, things that seem to be logical. Senator Kennedy called for such a course of action. You heard it briefly discussed in our debate last night. He called for - and get this - the U.S. Government to support a revolution in Cuba, and I say that this is the most shockingly reckless proposal ever made in our history by a presidential candidate during a campaign - and I'll tell you why. Now, before we go into this question, many people will say, "But, Mr. Nixon, are you for Castro? Don't you think we ought to support the people that are against him?" The question is not whether you're for or against Castro. The question is: What do you do? What can you properly do? What can the great United States of America legally and properly do to help the people of Cuba get the kind of government they deserve? And this isn't easy. It isn't the easy shooting-from-the-hip way that Senator Kennedy has suggested. As far as who is for or against Castro, let's look at the record. On that score, my record, as you might imagine, is crystal clear. I happen to have had a little experience in dealing with the Communists, and I seldom have been wrong in judging who they were or who were following that particular line. On that score I have been urging within the Government, for example, long before Castro came to power, and ever since he came to power, that we must recognize him either as a Communist or as a hopeless captive of the Communists. He's one or the other. On the other hand, what is Senator Kennedy's record on that score Well, he wrote a book, "Strategy for Peace," and in that he makes this naive and almost unbelievable statement: "Castro is part of the legacy of Bolivar." Now, all of the students here will know who Bolivar is. As a matter of fact, my first eighth-grade daughter knows. They studied Latin America. Most Americans know. He was the great liberator of the people of Latin America, a great hero, a fighter for freedom. To mention Castro and Bolivar in the same breath is blasphemy of the true fighters for freedom in Latin America, because, while Bolivar was a liberator, Castro is nothing but a cheap, egotistical enslaver - and that's what he is. And, so, the question is not who is for or against Castro. I don't question that Senator Kennedy is against him. Certainly he wouldn't question that I am against him. The question is: How do you get rid of this man, this cancer among the American Republics? Well, in that respect, we first have to look to our treaty commitment. We also have to look to our United Nations Charter, because the United States, if it means anything in the world, stands for doing the right thing. We do not break our treaties. We do not work against the United Nations. For example, in the Congo, instead of attempting to move in there unilaterally, as did Khrushchev, to take over that country, we have supported the U.N. and we have gained in prestige in the world despite what some of those people running down the United States have been saying in the past few weeks. Now, here is the way we handle Castro: What we must do is quarantine him. This is what I recommended, as you may recall, in a speech I made in Miami a few days ago - quarantine him diplomatically; quarantine him economically. This means shutting him off from communication, in effect, diplomatically and economically from the United States. Now, this we have done. This we will continue to do, and I have been repeatedly urging it within the Government. It's been done, incidentally, over the objection of some well-intentioned, but hopelessly naive Castro apologists within the United States - and all that I can say with regard to Senator Kennedy's position is that he apparently is attempting to obscure his association with the views of this pro-Castro group as indicated in the book that I mentioned a moment ago or he must have thought now that there would be political advantage in taking a stronger position than I have taken, a radical position, instead of the strong and sound position that the administration has taken. And, so, what does he suggest? He comes up, as I pointed up, with the fantastic recommendation that the U.S. Government shall directly aid the anti-Castro forces both in and out of Cuba. Now, every freedom-loving person in the United States - let's make it clear - is in sympathy with the democratic anti-Castro forces in Cuba and outside Cuba. We want them to win. We want them to win because we want the people to have the kind of government they deserve. We want them to realize their revolution, the things that Castro talked about, in freedom, but individual support is one thing. For the Government of the United States to aid revolutionary forces in another country would be intervention in the internal affairs of another nation - in this case, one of our sister Republics in the Organization of American States. You know what this would mean? We would violate right off the bat five treaties with the American States, including the Treaty of Bogota of 1948. We would also violate our solemn commitments to the United Nations, articles 1 and 2 as I pointed out in our debate last night - and already this statement has produced shock and dismay among the U.N. delegates from the Latin American countries. But the most dangerous implication which flows from Senator Kennedy's recommendation, if he does not immediately withdraw it - and I urge him to do s0 - is that this, as you can see, is a direct invitation for the Soviet Union to intervene militarily on the side of Castro. This gives them the excuse they have been waiting for, because now they can very easily say: "What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander." We can't play it both ways. They can say we can't object to the Soviet Union moving into Cuba under the Monroe Doctrine - we could at the present time - if the United States is attempting to intervene and move into the internal affairs of Cuba. Let's suppose the Soviet Union does move into Cuba. Suppose they do move in to help Castro. A major portion of the blame, I say, will rest on Mr. Kennedy, who two weeks before an election has made a statement which not only is provocative, but will be interpreted by the Soviets as an express invitation to do exactly that. And if they do come in you know what the result is? It can only mean a civil war in Cuba, which the United States would not avoid entering, and this result could easily be spread into a conflict, into a world war, that every American of both parties wants to avoid; and I say that Senator Kennedy owes it to the Nation to put the cause of peace and freedom before political consideration and to retract this immature, rash, and dangerous suggestion that he has made. Now, some of you who heard the debate, though, will remember that he said: "But, after all, this is nothing new," that we helped, he said, the Castro forces get arms and ammunition in the United States when they were supporting their revolution against Batista. This is one of the most sophomoric comments, incidentally, that he has made in any of these debates, because what he says is true, but this was not action by the U.S. Government. This was action by individual Americans. What he is calling for is the U.S. Government, not individual Americans, to support a revolution - and that is an entirely different thing, and the most tragic part of the episode is that this was not necessary. The quarantine proposal will work. It worked with the Arbenz Communist government in Guatemala which we inherited from our predecessors. It will work, I believe, with Cuba. And on the other side there is the wrong and demagogic way - the right that I have pointed out, the wrong which Senator Kennedy has advocated - and I say this is a way of shooting from the hip on matters gravely affecting the security of the United States. And, so, finally, let's look at the record, all three, the position on Quemoy and Matsu - slice off a bit of freedom; maybe it will lead to peace; the position on the summit conference - express regrets to Khrushchev; maybe we can save the conference, and then this latest episode with regard to Cuba. I think when you look at these three episodes that this should convince many Americans that they could not rest well at night with a man with such a total lack of judgment as Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces in this critical period. These are strong words, but these are difficult times, and strong words are necessary, and I intend to speak them from now on throughout this campaign so that the American people know--- It is President Eisenhower's judgment, his avoidance of mistakes of the kind I have just described - that's why we have been able to keep the peace, and if a President were to make mistakes like those Senator Kennedy would have made in these three incidents the result could only lead to disaster for ourselves and the free world; in my opinion, to war or surrender. Now, so much for his position. Let me turn briefly to ours. What do we offer? Well, first, I have spoken of my experience. I want to say a word about my running mate's. I don't think that any man in the world today has had more experience or could have done a better job in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than has Cabot Lodge, our Ambassador to the United Nations. Now, why is this important? Because he is going to work with me as a partner in strengthening the instruments of peace, in strengthening the United Nations, as he pointed out in his speech just a couple of days ago, in developing new instruments of peace. He also will be able to undertake the direction on a day-to-day basis of winning the struggle for freedom in Asia, in Africa, in Latin America, to which I have often referred. The next point that I should make: What else do we offer? We offer the experience that I have referred to. We are men who know the Communist leaders. We have dealt with them, and I think the American people know how we have dealt with them in the past, and they want us to continue to deal with them that way in the future because that is the way to peace without surrender. Now, what are the things that we will do? First, knowing those who oppose us, we will keep this Nation the strongest in the world, recognizing that unless we are the strongest in the world we cannot be the guardians of peace. We will see that the economy of this Nation moves forward, and I have made recommendations in this field that will move her forward in many, many areas, move us forward in a way that America will always maintain the tremendous advantage that we have economically today over the Soviet Union. Let me just mention one example that particularly will be of interest on this campus. If we're to move forward, we cannot afford to waste the talents of any young man or woman who has the ability to go to college and to make a contribution through a college education to his country. Now, how do we accomplish that? The easy way to accomplish that is to say: "Oh, the Federal Government should set up a program to do it all." Now, the Federal Government should play a part, but I say the best way to do it is this: The Federal Government should set up scholarships, a limited number, for those who are unable to develop the funds or to get the funds to borrow money and to repay a loan, scholarships to be given out on the basis of both need and ability. Second, we should continue and expand our loan program; but, third, we should add to that, in the American tradition, a provision whereby the parents and others who pay college tuitions and expenses can have tax deductions and credit for those expenses. With this three-pronged program, we will see that young Americans get the education that they want; but, returning to my basic theme again, keeping America strong militarily, keeping her strong economically, and, in addition to that, the firm diplomacy, to which I referred, the last point that I will make is one that I have often referred to in our debates but I would not want to leave this great college campus without emphasizing it for just a moment. Too often in these discussions of foreign affairs we become obsessed with the problems of the moment. It's Cuba or Quemoy and Matsu. It's military power and missiles. It's the economic struggle, whether or not our rate of growth is as fast as it ought to be. All of these things are important, but, my friends, just remember this: Whether America and the free world wins the struggle for peace and freedom is not going to be decided in the final analysis by our military strength or our economic strength or even by our diplomacy. All of these things can hold the line, but remember that when we talk solely in terms of military strength and economic strength we are meeting the enemies of freedom only on the grounds that they choose. We have something more to offer. We have something to offer to the world that we in America cherish, but too often we take for granted. I know what it means. When I was in Poland - I have often described this - I remember a year ago coming into the streets of Warsaw on a Sunday afternoon and seeing 250,000 Poles on the streets that day, cheering at the tops of their voices, shouting "Niech zyje America" - "Long live America" - stopping our car 8 times in the heart of Warsaw and swarming around it, running up, grabbing our hands, singing, shouting, and, looking into their eyes, over half of them were crying. Why? Not because America was strong militarily. Khrushchev had bragged of that kind of strength. He had been there a couple of weeks before and they didn't give him that kind of reception. Not because we were a rich country. They knew that. But because to them behind the Iron Curtain and to millions on this earth America stands for more than military might, more than materialism. We stand for ideals, for moral and spiritual strength, for a faith, for a faith that caught the imagination of the world a hundred and eighty years ago. It lives here. It lives in our hearts, and it is the hope of the world today - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our belief that the rights that men have to be free, that nations have to be independent, come not from men, but from God, and cannot be taken away by men. Oh, these things may sound trite and old, but remember this is what America stands for. It is as we project this to the world that we will win this struggle, and this is where we need your help. We need the help of the schools and the churches, the homes of America, so that young Americans will be proud of our heritage; they will know our heritage, and they will be strong in the faith that we have, because if America is strong morally and spiritually whoever is President of this country will be able to lead the free nations to victory, lead them to victory without war. Why? Because we are on the right side. Because we are on the side of freedom, on the side of justice, against the forces of atheism, injustice, and slavery. And this is what we ask tonight from you. We say not that we offer an easy way. We say not that we have a panacea, but my colleague and I say: We know who our enemies are. We have faith in America. We don't think she's second rate. We believe that America can lead the world and lead her and keep the peace without surrender. We believe that we can extend freedom without war, and we believe, with your help, we can do the job, and if you think that we can do the job then we ask you to go out and work for us from now until election day. Thank you.
Let me say this: Nothing is more important than what you folks will be doing between now and November the 8th, because on November the 8th, all of you who vote are going to make the most important decision possibly you will ever make in your lives. Now, it used to be in America that an election, whether it was a presidential or Congressional action, came every 2 years, or every 4 years, as the case might be, and not too many participated. For a long time the women couldn't even vote at all, and then not too many of the men. The percentage of them who voted was much less than it is today, and there were pretty good reasons, because what happened in Washington was very far away, it didn't really affect you too much. Taxes were low. The Government controls were very minor. Your local government had much more effect on your lives than your Federal Government. Today everything we do in Washington affects the prices of the things you buy in these stores. Everything we do in Washington is going to affect the future of every young person here and old person as well, but particularly these young boys, because I say to you, as I said in that debate last night, the most important duty of the next President of the United States is to keep the peace for America, as Dwight Eisenhower has, and keen it without surrender. Now, I can't discuss it in detail, but I will tell you this: I think I know Mr. Khrushchev. I think also that, having sat across from him, I'm not going to be fooled by him. I think also that I know what it takes to keep peace. I know that you don't just talk about it, but what you have to do is to work for it. That's why I'm glad to have running with me a man who will work to strengthen the United Nations and the other instruments of peace, and I say that when you take Cabot Lodge, that as Vice President, he will make one of the greatest Vice Presidents because he, more than any man in the world, has had more experience dealing with the Communists and doing a magnificent job of it at the United Nations, and we need him there as Vice President. So, on the issue of keeping the peace, with Cabot Lodge and with me, you know what you're going to get. You know that we aren't going to be fooled. You know that for 7½ years we have been trained by President Eisenhower. You know that where Mr. Khrushchev is concerned that we will always go the extra mile, but we're never going to make a concession without getting one in return. Why? Because we want peace. You know that we are going to keep America strong. Why? Because we want peace, and our strength is essential to keep it. And, so, on that issue I say we have the best case to present. And I say that America particularly, and based on some of the rash and impulsive comments made by my opponent last night in that debate, cannot sleep well at night if we have a man like that with that kind of judgment in the White House the next 4 years. I don't say that because I question his intentions, but I say this lack of judgment with regard to suggesting that Dwight Eisenhower should have apologized to Khrushchev, this lack of judgment suggesting, for example, that we should slice off an area of freedom, as we did in Korea, on the ground it's going to get us peace when we know with a dictator that's what gets us into war - we can't afford to have a President that makes that kind of mistakes. Cabot Lodge and I will not make that kind of mistake, and I say for that reason we submit to you our qualifications, and we are confident the American people, Democrat and Republican, will give us our fair, certain appraisal on election day. Now, a lot of folks here obviously will say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, just a moment. Maybe we can keep the peace." There are a lot of more things to life, and I know there are. I know many women -some men, but particularly women - who have to keep the family budget, who come up to me and they say, "What's the future for our children, for ourselves? How are we going to make ends meet? Are we going to continue to have good jobs, or better jobs, but, more than that, are the wages that we earn and that we have to take care of going to buy enough to keep the family going? Are we going to go into the stores and have the prices eat up the things we're going to earn," and I want to tell you this: You know the easy thing for a candidate is to come before a group and say: "I promise I'm going to do this, that, and the other thing. I'm going to spend billions more for this program and that program." I could tell you that. I want to win this election. That's the easy thing to say. You know why I don't tell you? Because it's the wrong thing. It's the wrong thing for me to attempt to buy your votes with your money, and that's exactly what you do when you make promises of that sort. So, I say America will do everything at the governmental level that it ought to do. We'll keep America strong. We will see that we have the best schools. We'll see that we move ahead in science. We will see to it that we have social security and unemployment insurance, that we will extend all of these things that are good for America and that Americans need, but I say to you also, as President, that there will be certainly not one dollar spent that doesn't need to be spent. And here you've got a choice. My opponent says that he's going to spend billions more. He says it in his platform - billions more than we would. What does this mean? If you vote for him, it means higher taxes. No question about it. It means higher prices. Take his farm program. It means the prices - and I know something about prices, the prices of hamburger, the prices of peas, the prices of bread - all of these things are going to go up in the store, and I ask you: Can you pay those higher prices and make ends meet? No; you cannot. And that's my point. I say with us you know you're going to have the kind of government that will move America forward, but we'll move America forward without taking it out of the hides of the American people in taxes and higher prices, and that's what you want, and that's what we're going to give you. And now the last point that I make is this: These stops are so short. I can only talk a little while and all you can do is say, "Well, there's a man and his wife. We look at them. How can we really make up our minds?" All I can say in conclusion is: My friends, you must look at us. You must listen to what we say, to our debates and the like, but this is the criterion. This is the test I want you to make, and listen very carefully. I want you to think of only one thing. Think of your family. Think of your children. Think of their future and think of America. Now, understand: I didn't say think of your party. I didn't say think of any organization to which you belong. I said, Think of America; your family, your future. If you believe that what Cabot Lodge and I stand for is what America needs, if you believe that what Cabot Lodge and I stand for provides the best chance for your children to grow up in a world of peace and freedom, if you believe that what we stand for gives you the best chance for a better life - if this is what you believe, my friends, then we ask for your vote, and if you give us your vote, remember, don't just vote. Remember, this is an election when the stakes are high. Go out and work from now until election day. And I know some of the housewives here will say: "How can I work? I've got cleaning to do at home. I've got to go out and shop for junior. And I've got to do this and that, his homework or hers and the like." Listen, nothing is more important than who is the next President. You remember that. Take off the next 2 weeks and see that the right people are elected, and then these other things will take care of themselves. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I think there has been a request that the signs be down so the people in the back can see on this side, if you don't mind. Thank you We want to thank you for this wonderful crowd on this Saturday afternoon, particularly in view of the fact we're late and we realize you must have been standing here for some time, and all that we can say is that, seeing this crowd, noting your enthusiasm this county, which has always given our Republican ticket a great majority, is going to roll up the biggest one in history this year, in 1960, and we're going to roll it up because we're. not only going to have Republicans, but Democrats and independents, who are going to vote for our ticket. There are many issues, which, of course, I could talk about on an occasion like this. The problem is with people jammed in, with many things to do the balance of the day, with you having been here so long, to pick those things that are of greatest interest to you. You may recall that we discussed some of those issues in a debate we had last night. I imagine some of you heard it. You also may recall that I said at the outset - and I repeat today - that, above everything else, the most important issue before the American people in this campaign is this: which of the two candidates for the Presidency and the Vice Presidency can provide the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world? Now, last night obviously I was talking primarily about my own views. Today, rather than speaking of my own experience at the outset, I want to say something about my running mate. He is a man who, in my opinion, has had more experience and certainly he is a man that I think could not have done a better job in fighting for the cause of peace and freedom in the U.N. in these past 7½ years, and he will make a great Vice President of the United States - and I refer to Henry Cabot Lodge. Now, I want to tell you why that's important. Because this job of peace, of developing the instruments of peace, is a very big one today. It isn't a job for one man. It isn't a job for two, even, but certainly it's a job in which, if you have a team, a President and a Vice President, working to strengthen the instruments of peace, can do it more effectively than if you do not have such a team - and I pledge to you that Cabot Lodge and I will work in this cause. I pledge to you we will work effectively in it. Of course, you might ask the question: "Why? How can you?" Well, I can say this about him, as well as about myself: we both have had some experience in dealing with the man on the picture there - Mr. Khrnshchev. We know him. Now, my opponent has said some remarks in his speeches. He didn't say them when we were face to face, but he rather ridiculed, he said, the debates that Mr. Nixon had with Mr. Khrushchev. Just let me say this: Whoever is the President of this country is going to have to learn how to handle Mr. Khrushchev and his colleagnes, and do it without surrendering freedom or territory any place in the world. I can assure you that Cabot Lodge and I have that background. We know what peace demands. We will always go the extra mile to strengthen peace, the extra mile to work for disarmament, the extra mile to reduce tensions, but we will always remember that the man we are dealing with and his colleagues are ruthless, fanatical aggressors and that they do not follow the rules of the game that we would like them to follow, and that we must treat them the way they are, and this means that we must never make a concession without being sure that we're getting one in return, that we must never agree, for example, to disarmament unless we can be sure that they, too, are disarming. Why is this necessary for peace? Because, as I said at my last stop, we've got to remember that as long as the United States maintains its present position of being stronger than anyone who threatens the peace of the world we can be the guardians of peace; but the moment that somebody or some nation that does not want peace - in other words, that would use war as an instrument of conquest - is stronger than we are, or thinks they are, then peace is no longer safe. So I say we will never do anything that will reduce American strength below the level that is necessary to maintain the peace that we have maintained in the last 7 years and that we can in the years ahead. Now, may I turn to one other subject which I know is of great current interest. Peace is important. It's important because we can have all the other good things of life and they don't mean anything if we're not around to enjoy them; but, also, we want other things. We want a good life in this country, better schools and housing and jobs, a better life for our children than we had for ourselves. That's the American dream. America, no matter how good things are, never wants to stand still - and, as I said last night, America has not been standing still under President Eisenhower, and isn't going to be standing still But, my friends, America can move forward, and we need to move forward because again we're in a deadly competition with this man. Again we have to do the right thing by our children in improving the standards of education and housing. Again we've got to see that all Americans move forward together and that none are left behind. We've got to make progress, for example, in the field of human rights. We made a great deal. We've got to make more - not only beeause it's right, but also because America must be an example to all the nations of the world of freedom and equality of opportunity in action. This is what we must do, and this I am sure you know Cabot Lodge and I agree on. We don't have a split personality on this issue as do our opponents. But let's get down to this whole business. People say: "Mr. Nixon, how can you say that your programs will produce more progress, schools and housing, and jobs, and so forth, than your opponent's when he says he's going to spend more money than you are?" And that's right. I'll concede that right now. He will spend about $10 billion more. But it isn't his money; it's ours that he's spending, and that's the reason the American people have to have - let me put it this way: You see, what we have to have in mind here is this: That it's very easy for a candidate for the Presidency to go around and say: "Look, you don't have to do anything. The Federal Government is going to handle all these problems. We're going to take billions of dollars. We're going to do this, that, and the other thing." But, you see, when you say that, you pay off those promises with the people's money, and that isn't right. I say the only time that you should ever expend money in Washington is when it can be spent better there than it can by the people themselves - and, believe me, that's what the American people want, whether they are Democrats or Republicans, throughout this country. And, so, I say to you our programs will produce more progress, and I'll tell you why. They will because we know that the real way to progress in this country is not through turning everything over to the Government in Washington, but through the Government that encourages Americans, individual Americans, all over this great land of ours to make a contribution to the growth of this country. Look, what built America? It wasn't government. We talk about frontiers. Let me tell you about the frontier a moment. After all, my parents went out to the frontier - first to Indiana, then to Ohio, then to California - my grandparents. What conquered the frontiers of America, these new frontiers? It wasn't government. It was a strong, pioneer, individual spirit, and today what is going to build Amenca is a strong, pioneer, individual spirit and not weakening individuals, but strengthening them. That's what we believe in, and that's what we believe America wants and what will move us forward in the years ahead. The last point that I want to make is this: This election is important. You expect me to say that, "After all," you say, "it's important to that fellow. Sure. He's running." But it's important to you. It's important to these young people, and between now and November 8 I'm going to ask every one of you to work. Pat and I, of course, will be working 14, 16, 18 hours a day, but I ask you to work, and I'm going to tell you why you ought to work - not in our interest, but in yours. You know, there was a time in the early history of this Republic when it didn't make too much difference to the average person as to what kind of Government we had, it was so far away and the Government had so little power, but today whoever is President will determine whether we have peace; whoever is President will determine whether we win the struggle for freedom; whoever is President will determine, in effect, whether your prices go up in that drugstore, whether your prices go up in that grocery store, whether your taxes go up in your tax bill - and if you vote for our opponents they will go up, because they are bound to, and if you vote for us that's the way to keep them down, because we don't believe in that kind of foolish policy - and that's what America wants. And, so, I say to you: If you want the kind of Government that will keep America strong at home, that will have progress, but at the same time will not rob you of your savings, rob you of your social security, rob you of your insurance, if you also want the kind of leadership that will keep America strong and will wage peace unceasingly, but will wage it from a position of strength and firmness, then I say do something about it. Don't just vote, but do something. Go out and talk to your neighbors and friends. Talk not only to Republicans, but to Democrats and Independents. Remember the stakes are high for all Americans. And tell them this - tell everybody this: It isn't enough in this eleetion simply to vote as your father did or as your mother did or as the party label. What is important now is to vote for what is best for America - and if it's best for America we believe it will be best for you.  In that connection, may I finally say I am proud of my Republican colleagues running on this platform. I am proud of our candidates for Congress, of our candidate for the assembly. They are a fine group. Look at their qualifications. If you agree, as I do, that we are the men that America and Pennsylvania and this district need, then work it as you never did and, as I said at the outset, let's roll up the biggest majority this great Republican county has ever had in its history. Thank you very much.
Now, since you were waiting so long and standing here packed so closely, there are just two or three points I want to make. I want to make them quickly - I want to make them directly - in a way that I am sure all of you will understand and appreciate. First of all, you heard me say in the debate last night that I found in traveling to 46 States in this country, and, incidentally, I have been in every State now except South Carolina and Alaska. I want to say that in traveling in these past few weeks to these States - you heard me say that I find it everywhere I go - it doesn't make any difference what kind of crowd it is - that the issue that people are thinking of above everything else is the one of keeping the peace without surrender and extending freedom. Now, why did I say that? I want to tell you why. I know that many people here might well say, "Now, just a minute, Mr. Nixon. We could argue that point. After all, there are other things that are important. How about jobs? How about schools? How about housing? How about all these things?" And, of course, the answer to that, my friends, is this: You know, we can have the best jobs and the best schools and the best housing and the best clothing we can possibly imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it. So, therefore, your major test for the candidates has to be: Who can lead us to victory in this great struggle without war? Who can keep the peace without surrender? Now, on that score I just want to add to what I said last night to this extent: This problem is not one that's going to be easy. I would like to tell this great audience here that Cabot Lodge and I, experienced as we are in knowing Mr. Khrushchev and the men in the Kremlin, Mikoyan, Kozlov, and all the other Communist leaders around the world that I've had the opportunity to meet with and to talk with. I'd like to tell you I've got a magic formula, where, just elect me and you won't have to worry about the future. But let me say this: We've got to remember that in the future we're going to have troubles, not because we want them, but because they're going to stir them up, because they want to take over the world, but I also want to tell you this: Life is never perfect for anybody. There's no perfect government, and there isn't going to be a future in which there's going to be no problems, but I can assure you that if you elect me and Cabot Lodge, we are two people who know the men in the Kremlin. We won't be fooled by them, and we believe we know how to deal with them, and we think that's what you want in these next critical years. And I say, on the basis of what you saw last night and in our previous debates, that our opponent showed, whatever his intentions may be - and I wouldn't question them - certainly a rashness, an impulsiveness, which would indicate to the American people that when you have a known quantity, a known quantity in which we present, and when you have the uncertain quantity that you have in what they present, that America isn't and can't take a chance on leadership in these critical years in the sixties; what we need to do is to have people that you know will know how to handle the men in the Kremlin and Cabot Lodge and I offer that to you in this year, in this election. Now, just along that score, may I just mention one point that particularly concerned me as I went along today. I recall as we went by Swarthmore College some signs were up, saying, "Mr. Nixon, why not disarmament?" I want to talk a bit about that. I, as you know, happen to be a Quaker. I come from a tradition going clear back, as a matter of fact, to this area where my Irish Quaker forebears came to Pennsylvania, the Milhouses, before they moved then to Indiana, and then on to California, and there is nothing in my life that I've heard from my grandmother, who always used plain speech to all of us, and my mother who still uses it with her sisters - I have nothing in my life that I remember more than, and which has been ground into me more than that we must keep the peace. I know this. I believe in this. I want disarmament, above everything else. I want peace above everything else. Why, then, don't I say this is an easy formula for it? Why don't I say, let's take Mr. Khrushchev at his word? Why don't I say there is a way to get this without standing for inspection and the like? And I want to tell you why. I sat opposite the conference table to this man. I see him, ruthless, tough, completely a man dedicated to one purpose only - the evil purpose of conquering the world, and this is what I know. If America ever makes the mistake of entering into a disarmament agreement, which he does not also keep with inspection, it will increase the danger of war rather than reduce it, and I'll tell you why: We cannot leave to a man who is the enemy of peace power to start a war and destroy the world. We have to have the power because we are friends of peace. As long as America is the strongest nation in the world, the world need not fear that there will be war, because we will use our strength to keep peace, and I think that all of you, including those who are as dedicated to peace as I am, will say that we want the next President of the United States always to go the extra mile, as President Eisenhower has, to negotiate with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else for disarmament. We want to go the extra mile to strengthen the United Nations and the instruments of peace, but under no circumstances do we want the next President to be a man who will be fooled, who will make concessions to them without getting concessions in return, and, above all, we do not want the next President to be one who will reduce the strength of America unless we're absolutely sure that the enemies of peace are also reducing their strength at the same time. I want to talk about another point, a very different one. We talk about peace and all these things, foreign policy - they all seem far away. I want to talk about what you do on a Saturday. I grew up in a grocery store. Saturday was our busiest day. That was the day we got up very early in the morning, my mother particularly. She used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning to bake the pies that were sold in the store. They were mighty good, incidentally. Twenty-five cents for the best green apple pie you could possibly put in your mouth. But, in any event, the rest of us, five boys, we all worked in the store, and I remember people came in that day, shopping, looking for the bargains. That was the day we had the sales usually. And I remember, too, that in that period - I remember too that in that period - we're never going to let this flag fall any time any place in the world - I can assure you of that. I remember in that period - I know the problems of families, frankly, to meet the family budget. I remember, for example, housewives would come in a nd they would buy hamburger rather than steak, stew meat rather than the chuck roast that was a little more expensive, no strawberries out of season, for example, if they couldn't afford it. In fact, what I'm really trying to say is this: I know the problems of Americans these days, and at all times, millions of Americans, good as our wages are, and certainly Americans live the best life in the world, the problems of making ends meet. Now, what does this all have to do with electing a President of the United States? My friends, what you do on November the 8th will determine the prices you pay in the stores. It will determine your jobs. It will determine your future at home. And I just want to say that, in that connection, if you vote for our opponents, you must have in mind that the programs that they have will raise taxes - and I charge this, and they cannot deny it - they will raise prices, particularly in your food stores, and also they will, in my opinion, blunt the growth of the American economy, and I want to tell you why. Because they go the wrong way in working for progress for America. The right way to get progress in this country is not to increase the power and the size of the Federal Government, just for the sake of doing it. The right way to get progress in America is for Government to do those things that will give us 180 million free Americans a chance to develop to the full the potential of this country, and that's what we stand for, and that's the way I'm sure the American people want to move in these years ahead. And I say to you that our programs will keep America prosperous at home. Our programs will not spend a dollar, believe me, that we don't need to spend in Washington, and yet we will spend every dollar that we need to see that we move forward and that we also keep the peace abroad. Now, the last point that I make is one that is particularly related to and directed to these girls who are in front of me, and the boys as well, who are probably going to have dates with them tonight. We hear a great deal these days about the responsibilities of people in public office. The Congressman should do this and the Senator that, and the President of the United States is the man who can keep the peace, and all that sort of thing, and has these responsibilities. There is no question that public officials have a great responsibility; but, as I said last night, my friends, in that debate, a President of this country can only be as great as the people of this country are great. Let me spell it out for just a moment. What will be decisive in this struggle in which we're engaged? Not America's military strength. That is important. Not America's economic strength. That is important. But what will be decisive is whether or not America is stronger in its faith, in its ideals, in what it believes. Let me tell you what I saw in Russia. In every factory I visited, on every billboard, I saw a sign, "Work for the victory of communism." Pat, my wife, went to pioneer camps where young girls like these, and boys, were there, and they were working, driven on, working for the victory of communism. Now, they are working for something that is wrong, but they are working for it all over the world. What is the answer to that? It isn't just to be against communism. It isn't just to be strong militarily and economically, as we must be and will be. But the answer to that, my friends, is to work for greater ideals, for the victory of freedom. Let me tell you what that means. That means keeping the faith of America strong; seeing that the young people in this country know what America really stands for. Why has America caught and held the imagination of the world for 180 years? Not because we're militarily strong and economically great. When they wrote the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, America was a poor country; America was a weak country militarily, economically, but America was a strong country. Why? Because we believed in the right things - our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men; our belief that these rights belong not just to us, but to all men. And what rights do I mean? Freedom of speech; freedom of press; freedom of religion; equality of opportunity for all. These are the principles, my friends, that America has given to the world to preserve. These are the principles that we in this great last half of the 20th century have the responsibility not just to keep for ourselves, but to extend to the whole world. If the young people of America can be filled with that kind of zeal we're going to win this struggle. We will win it in this last half the century, and we will build a new world, a new world in which all men can enjoy what we have here, all men can enjoy freedom, all men can have a chance, an equal chance, for opportunity, all men can wage a winning war against poverty, misery, and disease. This is the opportunity that my friend and colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I ask in this campaign. If you believe that we're the men who can lead a strong American people, believing in these ideals, in this direction, then may I ask you: Don't just vote on election day, but take off between now and election day. Remember, this is probably the most important decision you're going to make this year; maybe the most important in your life. Take off. Even you young people who can't vote - go out and talk to your friends and neighbors. All of you take off and work for our cause, remembering you're not just working for men or for a party, but you're working for the destiny that America has always stood for - for freedom for all mankind, for peace for all the world. This is a great cause. I believe in it deeply. That's why I am working and Pat is working 12, 16, 18 hours a day, and that's why I ask you to work just a few hours between now and election day, to be sure that we win this victory that America needs. Thank you.
As I told you Friday evening, your wire with regard to asking for a fifth debate was delivered to me just prior to our going on the air. In view of the fact that I told you on that occasion that I was preparing an answer to your wire and have since indicated a willingness to meet with you on television again if I am convinced it would be constructive and in the public interest, I find it difficult to understand your continued public statements to the effect that "I am afraid to meet you in debate." Such a statement is sophomoric and not worthy of one who is running for the highest office in this land. Furthermore, you know it is untrue. Just to set the record straight with regard to our debates up to this point, it was first agreed that we should have three debates. And that at your request we would attempt to work out the terms for a fourth debate, which I did. At that time it was definitely agreed that we could go forward with planning our campaign appearances on the assumption that this would be the total number during the campaign. As a result, I have commitments for all the campaigning days between October 21 and November 8. The record should also show that when you suggested a fifth debate I agreed providing we could do it by adding an extra hour on the same evening we had the fourth debate. Your representatives at first refused to accept this proposal and, when you finally announced you would accept it, the networks were unable to arrange it. Looking to the future, let me state my position clearly, so you will understand it. I will try to rearrange my schedule to fit in a fifth meeting if I believe it would serve a constructive public purpose. Unbiased observers agree that in our last two debates some of the same ground has been covered and that the questions in some instances have become repetitious. For 4 hours we have discussed on television many questions - how to keep the peace and extend freedom, the state of our military and moral strength, our economic growth, and the problems of providing for the human needs of our people. However, in one sense, these meetings have not been debates but merely interrogations on some of the issues of the day. Comparing these meetings with the Lincoln-Douglas debates, as some have done, is not an accurate analogy. What made those debates so significant and memorable is that they dealt with one subject of great immediate public interest on which the candidates completely disagreed with each other. Such an issue has developed in this campaign during the last several days as a result of my speech before the American Legion on Wednesday and your response issued in New York on Thursday, and the brief discussion which we had concerning it during our television appearance on Friday. The question can be stated this way: "What should the U.S. Government do about Castro?" I favor an economic and political quarantine as outlined in my American Legion speech. Specifically you state that "We must attempt to strengthen the non-Batista democratic anti-Castro forces in exile, and in Cuba itself who offer eventual hope of overthrowing Castro. Thus far these fighters for freedom have had virtually no support from our Government." This clearly means, as the New York Times Washington correspondent, James Reston, reported in today's paper: "His statement this week on Cuba, publicly calling for Government aid to overthrow Castro, is a clear violation of the inter-American treaty prohibition against intervention in the internal affairs of the hemisphere Republics." Thus it is clear that you and I are diametrically opposed on a matter of great public interest and one which the next President may have to deal with as soon as he assumes the office. It is my firm belief that the course of action proposed by you is recklessly dangerous because-  1. It clearly violates the U.S. Government's solemn commitments to the United Nations and the Organization of American States not to intervene in the internal affairs of other members of these organizations. It would, in fact, violate a total of five treaties to which the United States has pledged itself.  2. It would, as we have seen from the immediate response of shock and dismay in Latin America, alienate every one of our sister American Republics whose friendship you have acknowledged is of vital importance to our efforts against communism.  3. It would give Mr. Khrushchev a valid excuse to intervene in Cuba on the side of the Castro government, saying that the United States had intervened in violation of its treaty obligations in trying to overthrow the existing government.  4. If this happened, your policy could lead to World War III. Here we have a clear-cut difference of opinion involving policy considerations of the highest importance and involving a decision that the next President may have to make early in his term. The people are entitled to know why each of us holds the views that we do so that they can make an intelligent choice between us.  I will be glad to have my representative meet with yours at any convenient time to discuss possible arrangements for a debate in depth on this subject of paramount importance. In addition, I believe it would be in the public interest, and the fifth debate would afford a good opportunity, for each of the vice-presidential candidates to discuss, in turn, his concept of the office to which he aspires and how it might continue to be employed in support of the struggle for peace and freedom. I would suggest that each of the vice-presidential candidates might speak on that subject as a preliminary to our final debate.
This is the first appearance during this campaign when we've had snow, so to have this wonderful crowd is an indication that, whether its raining or snowing or the sun is shining, we're going to carry Pennsylvania this year. Second, to be introduced by Jimmy Van Zandt again is always a great pleasure to me. As you know, I'm sure, he and I have been close friends since the time I came to the Congress in 1946. He was there before I; and I look to the time when he will have the rightful position of one of the most important Members in the Congress, not just as the minority member, but as the chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy. This will happen with the election of a Republican Congress, if we can do that this year. While I am in Altoona, I want to say just one other thing of a completely political nature, I say "political" from the standpoint of our opponents, but from the standpoint of this city and the people here, of tremendous importance. Altoona has done one of the most magnificent jobs of any city in the country - not just waiting for the Federal Government to come in and help you, but helping yourselves and bringing business into this area. But there is a job the Federal Government can do. President Eisenhower has been trying to get the Democratic Congress to do something about this, and over and over again they have refused. The only bills they have sent up to him have been the typical pork-barrel bills that would cost you money and wouldn't do the job. Now, there is a bill that will do the job. It is one that Jimmy Van Zandt and Hugh Scott and others have worked out. It is one that I support. It is one that will produce on the promises that they make, and all that I can say is: They have had a chance. They have struck out, so it's time to give us a chance, because, may I say, we're not interested just in an issue. We are interested in solving this problem, and we will do it. Certainly, on the record, we can only assume that their only interest is in an issue, because in every instance when they have brought their bills up, they wouldn't deal with the specific problems with which you are concerned to the same extent and with the same amount that our plans would. Now the third point that I want to touch upon is one that will be of interest to everybody in this audience, to every American throughout this Nation today, and in the years to come. It's more important than any other issue. It was the issue that Senator Kennedy and I discussed in our debate last Friday, which some of you heard. On that occasion I said, and I say again today, that the most important qualification of the next President of the United States will be: "Does he have the judgment; does he have the background; does he have the experience to keep the peace for America and keep it without surrender?" I submit to you that Cabot Lodge and I, our team, knows what peace demands. We know those who threaten the peace of the world. We have dealt with them. You know, and I say, that the American people today do not and will not take a chance on untried and inexperienced leadership, when you know you can go the way that we will go in the years ahead. I say that by his statements in this campaign to date that our opponent has, in effect, disqualified himself as one who could handle this tremendous problem in the years ahead. I'll tell you why. Not because of intentions. There's no question about everybody's wanting peace. There's no question about everybody being against communism. There's no question about everybody being against surrender. The point is judgment. The point is: "How are you going to react when you have the tough decisions?" How has President Eisenhower kept the peace? I'll tell you. I know. I have been there. I remember the decision on Lebanon. I remember the decision on Quemoy and Matsu. I remember all the decisions in these critical years. A man less wise, a man less firm, could have made the fatal error that would have resulted in war or surrender. After having seen what is required, and also after having been around the world and having seen in the Kremlin the tough, ruthless men that confront us; my friends, I know we cannot afford to take a chance on someone who would be inconsistent, someone who would suggest, as my opponent did, that President Eisenhower could have apologized to Mr. Khrushchev at Paris - he couldn't do that - someone who would have sliced off a piece of the free world, someone who would have sliced it off at Quemoy and Matsu, doing the very thing that resulted in war in Korea - we can't have a man who would have made that kind of mistake - someone who would have made the critical error on Cuba that he would have made in our debate the other day, an error that would have lost us all of our friends in Latin America. That would have resulted in our prestige falling throughout the world and would not have solved the problem. I could go on, but time, of course, is short, particularly because of the situation in which you find yourselves with this weather, but I can only sum it up in this way: I don't promise you that in these years ahead it is going to be easy, because, my friends, while it would be easy for me to make such a promise, I know what the world is. I have been to 55 countries. I know what the enemies of peace are up to, and I know that the best effort of America is needed, not just by our President, but by you, each and every one of you. It means every American doing his best for America, so that America can do its best for the world. You see, these next 4 years are going to determine whether we have a world of peace, of great progress, one in which we can wage a winning war on poverty, misery, and disease, because we can do that. Or it's going to determine whether we have a world in which our children and grandchildren will grow up in war or surrender or disaster. It can be a good world. It can be a world of peace. It can be a world of freedom. I believe this. I have faith. I have it because I have seen America, and I know how strong our people are. All of this yakking about America with no sense of purpose; all of this talk about America being second-rate - I'm tired of it and I don't want to hear any more talk about it. I have seen the second-rate country, the Soviet Union, and we want no part of what they have got, and we're not going to have it. I say that as long as Americans do have faith in themselves, if we also have faith in our God, that we will defeat the atheists, the materialists, and those who oppose peace and freedom throughout the world, but that is the critical issue, and it is on that basis that we present our case to you today. There is one other thought that I would add. In this world America can be even richer and stronger with better life for our people than we have had, and we must move forward, and we will. And all Americans, in all parts of America, must move forward together. I pledge that. And I pledge it not simply because I am running for President. I just saw today a man who reminded me of my father and my own background. My father always used to say when we were growing up that his youngest brother was the smartest Nixon of them all. He was speaking of me, too, incidentally, and my brothers when he referred to him. Today, in this audience is my uncle, Ernest Nixon. He's over 75 years of age, but he's the best potato grower in all of Pennsylvania. And I want to add this: I remember my Dad also used to say, "I don't want to go back to the good old days. I remember what they were, and we're never satisfied with things as they are in America." We want to move forward. We want a better life for our children than we've had for ourselves and for those who say, as my opponents do, that I don't care about the people who are unemployed, that we don't care for the oppressed, that we don't care for those people who do not have the good things of life. Believe me, they don't know me; they don't know this country, and they don't know our party, either. I'm proud to be running on a record. But I'm also proud to stand for a program that will move America forward, but move her without robbing you of your savings through inflation and taxes, as our opponents would do with their program. I'm also proud to say here today that in 1952, when I campaigned from this same spot - all of you will remember there was a mess in Washington. You know what caused it, because there were bosses who were calling the turn at the White House for the President of the United States. I say that if our opponent is elected, we will go back to boss rule in the White House. I think the people had enough of it in 1952. They don't want any more of it now, and I can assure you that if I'm elected, the only bosses I will recognize are the American people who did elect me on this election day. So, with thanks again, for your patience, for coming out and welcoming us, we express our appreciation. I only wish we had the time to mingle with you, to shake hands, to sign some autographs. But then, if we did that, and if we stayed too long, some voters might catch pneumonia and we need every one of you on election day. So thank you and goodby.
Vice President NIXON. Senator Scott, Mr. Mayor, all the distinguished guests here on the platform, and our friends in Greensburg and from Westmoreland and all the other counties, I want to say first that Pat and I always appreciate a crowd, but particularly one when it's snowing, so thank you very much for coming out. [Cheers.] And to the Greensburg High School Band. I give you our special thanks for having you play for us here today. [Cheers.] As we were coming in I remembered our visit here 4 years ago and the wonderful reception we had. When I saw that the weather was like, I certainly did not expect so many of you would come out, but the fact that you have indicates (1) you're a very hospitable people - and also it indicates that you're tremendously interested in the great issues of this campaign. [Cheers.] And seeing what kind of a reception you've given us - both 4 years ago and this - I can understand why Bill Mazeroski decided to live out here. [Cheers.] You know, if we can only hit in the clinch like that - in the clutch - why, we'll do all right. Right? [Cheers.] (I've got a special rooting section right down here - I'm going to take them along.) [Cheers.] As you know, those of you who have had the opportunity to listen to our debates, there have been a great many issues discussed in this campaign and always the problem of the candidate is to select those that particularly the people in an area would like to hear discussed. I would like to say today that certainly the one we discussed in our last debate is most important, the most important because we can have, you know, all the good things that we can possibly imagine on this earth and it isn't going to make any difference if we don't develop the policies that will keep the peace for America and that will keep it without surrender of our freedom throughout the world. [Cheers.] I feel very deeply about this subject because I have had the experience of traveling all over the world; I've been to 55 countries; and I have seen those that threaten the peace of the world. I have seen them firsthand. I have seen them not only in the Kremlin, but I have seen them on the streets of Rangoon in Burma; I have seen them in Vietnam; I have seen them in Korea and Formosa; I have seen them in Latin America - all over the world I have seen those that are working unceasingly for the wrong as America stands for the right. I know that this election is critical for that reason. I know that whoever is the next President of the United States is going to have to make some very, very [cheers] - some tremendously important decisions, decisions that will determine the future of the world as well as the future of our people. And it's for that reason that I speak so strongly to you today, speak to you in terms of what leadership will be required in these years ahead. And I want to tell you what it is. We're going to have to be not only the strongest nation in the world militarily, not only the most productive nation in the world from the standpoint of our factories and our farms, but my friends, we're in addition to that going to have to have leadership which will not make mistakes when the chips are down. That is why we have been able to keep the peace for the last 7½ years; that's why President Eisenhower, over this period of time, when the great decisions had to be made, made them in a way that America has avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. [Cheers.] Now, Cabot Lodge my colleague, and I - as you know - have had the opportunity of being part of this administration; we have had the opportunity, in addition to that, of knowing those with whom we're going to have to deal. We've dealt with them; we've been across the conference table from them. And my friends, you know what we can do; you know what we will do. [Cheers.] Also, in these past few weeks, you've had an opportunity to see what our opponent will do. And the question is not one of good intentions - everybody's intentions are good - we all want to keep the peace, we all want to avoid surrender, we all want to be sure that communism does not dominate the world * * * but my friends, good intentions are not enough. What you have to do is to have the firmness, you also have to have the ability, the judgment, the experience, which will deal with these problems effectively. In instance after instance, we've seen in these last few weeks - you have listened to these debates, as you've heard this campaign - that my opponent would make mistakes in the clutch, and this we cannot afford; this we cannot afford. [Cheers.] Just let me give you an example. Suppose he had been at the Paris Conference, suppose he had been there and Mr. Khrushchev had come up to him (as he did to President Eisenhower) and said: "You apologize for those U-2 flights" (which the President ordered, as you know, to protect this country against surprise attack). He has indicated that he thinks the President of the United States could have done that. Let me tell you what would have happened if President Eisenhower had done that. It would have meant that Khrushchev, a man that I can tell you is ruthless, a man who in addition to that - the moment you give him an inch he takes not ust a mile but the whole world, it would have encouraged him to push more, to blackmail more; it would have been the wrong thing to do, not the right thing to do. [Cheers.]  And so it is down the line on issue after issue - we have this same problem. My friends, I say that in this critical period America has to have leadership which is firm, which is nonbelligerent, and that that kind of leadership can keep the peace, but we cannot and we need not take a chance on leaders who have indicated - certainly by their conduct and by what they would have done - that when these great decisions were made they would have decided another way, a way that would have not kept the peace as President Eisenhower has been able to keep it. And so that's the first point that I make.  The next one that I make is one that all of you will understand. We not only have to be strong in our diplomacy and strong as far as our military and economic strength is concerned, but my friends, we have to be strong in the ideals in which we believe. Let me tell you why that's important.  Too often we have a tendency to think that all that matters in this world in which we live is the great military strength that we have and that our opponents have, and the economic strength that we have as against theirs. This is important. But I can tell you this: in the long run what will decide whether we live in a world of peace and freedom or whether injustice and slavery, what will decide it is whether we believe in the right thing, whether our faith is stronger than theirs.  Let me tell you what I saw every place I was in the Soviet Union. Huge signs in the schools "Work for the Victory of Communism." Huge Signs in every factory "Work for the Victory of Communism." Huge signs on every billboard (not advertising anything) "Work for the Victory of Communism." And so these people - driven unmercifully by their leaders - are told "Work for the Victory of Communism." What does this mean? Not only there but all over the world, we find them working for the victory of communism. It's wrong, the world know it's wrong - once they know what communism is - but, my friends, the only answer to a false idea is the true idea; the only answer to a wrong idea is the right idea, and what we need is more faith in America than we've had before, we've got to quit thinking of America as being second rate in anything because we're not. [Cheers.]  We have to remember that our strength is the strength that came from our forefathers; it's the strength that came 180 years ago with the American Revolution; it's strength that is greater than missiles, and greater than productivity of factories; it's the faith that this country has in our God, in our ideals, in the belief that the rights that men and women have to freedom that we have in this country - that they belong not just to us but they belong to everybody in the world. This is why America means something in the world today. And if the next President of the United States can go into the great councils of the world and stand with the people united behind him - morally and spiritually strong - confident in their faith and their strength - my friends, we will build a world of peace, we will build a world of freedom, and that's what I ask - with my colleague, Cabot Ledge, for the opportunity to do. [Cheers.] This is the support that we ask of you today. [Cheers.] And so, again, our appreciation for your kind attention. I can only add that I am proud, too, to be on the platform with my Republican colleagues, with Bill Batten, our congressional candidate, with our other State candidates. I commend them all to you, but let me say this: remember there is not one more important thing you will do this year than the vote you will cast on November 8. It will affect the peace of this world; it will affect the prices of the things you pay in the stores; it will affect the taxes you pay, because what our opponents would do would raise prices, raise taxes, and in my opinion would jeopardize the chances for peace to which I refer. So if you believe this decision is important - and, believe me, it is - then I say don't just vote, but go out and work between now and election day as you never have before. Work for the victory, not just of a party and not just of a man, but work for the victory of the ideals in which you believe, and that will be right. Thank you very much. [Cheers and applause.]
My telegram to you yesterday contained exact language from your mimeographed statement issued in New York on Thursday, October 20. Do you now contend that the quotation is inaccurate? Your language clearly means what James Reston of the New York Times said it means, as I quoted in my telegram to you, as follows:  His [Mr. Kennedy's] statement this week on Cuba publicly calling for Government aid to overthrow Castro is a clear violation of the inter-American treaty prohibition against intervention in the internal affairs of the hemisphere republics. Virtually every major newspaper which has commented on the subject understood your remarks as Mr. Reston did and as I did that you were advocating direct Government support of the anti-Castro forces both in exile and in Cuba. This is another case of your speaking first and thinking afterward - a habit which is a very dangerous one for a man who is asking the American people to select him as Commander in Chief of all the Armed Forces of this Nation. If your original statement on Cuba had been intended only to cover what you now claim in your telegram to the effect that we should "let the forces of freedom in Cuba know that we believe that freedom will again arise in their country" you would have been advocating what has been the policy which the administration has been following for months. Apparently you are under the impression that when attention is called to your mistakes you can confuse people by immediately claiming that you were misquoted or that what you said was distorted. I will cite two other examples of this technique. (1) When a report came out about what you said in Oregon to the effect that President Eisenhower could have expressed regrets to Khrushchev you claimed that your remarks had been distorted. You will recall that your present running mate took the lead in ridiculing your claim that your remarks had been distorted. Finally, when you were forced to put your remarks in the Congressional Record it was clear that you had not been misquoted and that what you said had not been distorted. (2) You claimed distortion when I said that you advocated in 1955 that the free world should abandon Quemoy and Matsu and that in our second television debate you advocated the same policy. However, your vote favoring the resolution excluding Quemoy and Matsu from the Formosa defense perimeter, which would mean abandonment, is a matter of record which you cannot deny. Your language during the second television debate clearly indicates that you still favor that policy. Now you cry distortion about your remarks on Cuba even though every major newspaper understood it the way I did - as did those most directly affected and with the most knowledge of the situation, the Ambassadors to the United Nations from the Latin American countries, many of whom expressed shock and dismay at your proposal. It is true, as you stated in your telegram, that I said that I intended to talk about Quemoy and Matsu every day for the final 3 weeks of the campaign. When I said that I had no idea that you would make even a greater blunder about Cuba. Consequently, I will talk about not only Quemoy and Matsu but also about Cuba every day during the next 2 weeks - I will do this because I am deeply concerned about the policies you advocate in those two areas of the world which might well lead to abandoning free territory in the Far East, and a loss of all of our Latin American allies in this hemisphere or worse. The United States in these critical times cannot risk a President who makes mistakes of this magnitude. Your telegram does not make it clear whether you accept my proposal or not. However, I will be glad to have Fred Scribner meet with your staff to discuss the matter. I assume from your silence that you accept my proposal concerning the vice-presidential candidates and have instructed Mr. Scribner accordingly.
I want to say first how much Pat and I appreciate your welcoming us, your standing here in this rather brisk weather today and also how very happy and proud I am to be back in Harrisburg, to have the opportunity to be on the same platform with the Republican candidates who have been introduced to you - with Walt Mumma, my friend running for reelection to the Congress of the United States, and with all the rest. I say, let's go Republican all the way in this county again, as you have in year after year in Harrisburg and this area. Now, the second point that I want to make is one that already has been referred to by Harv Taylor, who introduced me. Why is it that a great crowd like this will come out in cold weather at this hour in the morning to hear a man who is running for President of the United States? I'll tell you why. Because you realize that this election and the decision you make on November 8 may be the most important decision of your life. You know why? It will affect the future of this country. It will affect the future of every young person here who is thinking, as you are thinking, of whether he's going to grow up in a world of peace or a world of war. It also is going to affect, may I say - it's going to affect the prices of everything you buy in the stores on this square. It's going to affect your taxes. It's going to affect your jobs. That's what this election is all about. Let me spell it out in just a few words. Why do I say this is an election that is the most important election in your lifetime? Because today the man who is elected President of the United States must lead not only this country, but the whole free world. It is necessary for us, therefore, to look at the candidates for President and to look at the candidates for Vice President, in terms not of what they say they want to do, but in terms of what we know they will do in handling these problems. All that I can say with regard to Cabot Lodge and me is this: We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat across the conference table with him. We have not been fooled by him, and we need nothing less than that kind of experienced leadership if we are going to keep the peace that President Eisenhower has brought to us in these last 8 years. Now, I am sure many of you heard the debate Senator Kennedy and I had last Friday. I am sure, too, you've had an opportunity to hear some of the other discussions. I think it's only accurate to point out this: that in this period you have a choice between one man - two men, Cabot Lodge and I, who had the opportunity of dealing with these problems, and another man who, on occasion after occasion, has indicated that when the chips were down that he would have made the mistake, the mistake that could have led, in my opinion, either to war or to surrender of territory. Let me give you just three quick examples. In 1955, and I was there when the decision was made, President Eisenhower had to meet the threat of communism in the Pacific, as presented in the Formosa Straits. He asked for the right to defend that area. Senator Kennedy was one of those who said then, who said again in 1959, who said again on our second and third debates, "We're going to cut off a couple of islands here. We will not defend these because if we do, it may lead to war." He was wrong. The President was right. I say let's stick with the President's policies and not turn to his policies at this point. The second point, already referred to - the summit conference in Paris - the President of the United States standing there, Khrushchev insulting him in the most vulgar language, insulting him - why? Because the President of the United States had done what was necessary, getting information to protect this country from surprise attack. Khrushchev saying, "You apologize, or express regrets." The President of the United States saying, with dignity, in effect, "We will do no such thing." Senator Kennedy saying, "He could have done it." Who was right. Eisenhower, not Kennedy - and that's the kind of policy-- Point 3: and this most recently, and certainly one of the greatest mistakes ever made by a presidential candidate in the history of this country, indicating that he would directly intervene in Cuba, the Government of the United States moving into that situation. What would that have done? Lose us all our friends in Latin America, lose us our influence in the United Nations, because we would have broken every treaty if we had done what he wanted us to do. It would have invited the Soviet Union to come into Cuba, something they would need an excuse for, and this would have been the excuse. The President, of course, has refused to do that. The Senator recommended it. Who was right? Eisenhower not Kennedy - and we're sticking with the Eisenhower policy. My friends, this is what I am saying, Harv Taylor, my good friend, said a moment ago that my opponent had no experience. Let me correct him to this extent. He has had experience, but on every occasion when the chips were down, if he had been President and made the decision, it would have been disastrous for the United States, and we can't take a chance now on that kind of inexperienced leadership. That's the issue in this campaign. So, I say we will keep this country strong. We will keep the economy of this country progressing. We will keep it moving forward, and we will be firm at the conference table, working for the cause of peace. Now, the other point that I make: I said your taxes are going to be affected, your prices, everything that you buy. Those of you who heard our debates will remember that on several occasions I said, "Senator, tell us how you're going to pay for all these promises you have been making around the country," because, after all, my friends, when he promises this or that or the other thing, it isn't Jack's money - he's got a lot - but it's your money that's going to buy all those promises. And I charge again today that his programs would add $15 billion to the budget of this country. He says no. But he refuses to say what he's going to give up. He's got to do one of two things. He's got to give up his campaign promises that he has been making, or he's got to take it out of the hides of the people. What does that mean? It means if you vote that way, it means going back to the policies we left 8 years ago. It means higher taxes or higher prices, or both; or it means pie in the sky, and that means not delivering on the promises, because it simply can't be done unless you do it. I say the American people today want to move forward. They have been moving forward. They will move forward with us, but there is a way to move forward without doing what our opponents would do, and that is raise your taxes, raise your prices. America says "No" to that, and "Yes" to the leadership that we offer in continuing in the great traditions of Dwight Eisenhower. And, so, again I say to you: The choice is clear. America has been moving forward. America can move forward even more in the years ahead, but, my friends, we won't do it by going back to the policies of Harry Truman that we left in 1953 - and that's all that our opponent offers. So, here's your choice. Your choice is clear. Between now and election day, you have the responsibility to determine your lives, the lives of your children. I say it's time for Americans to wake up. It's time for them to wake up that there is nothing more important that you can do in these next 2 weeks, than to get out and work as you have never worked before in an election. If you want higher prices, if you want to take a chance on inexperienced leadership in dealing with the greatest threat to the peace the world has ever seen, then just sit at home. Just do nothing about it. But, my friends, if you want experienced leadership, if you want two men who know the men in the Kremlin and know how to deal with them, if you want to move forward in the traditions that we have been following and move even more in the years ahead, then I say you have a choice, and we offer it to you. And my last point is one that I know all of you will understand and appreciate. I would not want to come to this great city which is the capital of Pennsylvania, which just celebrated its centennial, which has in it also some great traditions and ideals of America - I would not want to come here without pointing up the fact that my colleague and I realize that in this great struggle for the world, it isn't just a question of economics. It isn't just a question of our military strength; but it is a question of the things we believe in - our faith. And I want you to know in these next 4 years, if we get the opportunity that we ask for, we're not going to present America just as a strong country militarily, as a rich country economically; but we're going to present America as a country and a people who believe in the right things, who have our faith in God, faith in our ideals, faith and belief in the rights of all men to be free, in the rights of all people to live in peace. It's this that the world needs. It's this that will win the struggle for the world. It's this that I deeply believe, and it's because I believe these things that I ask for your support today. I do not claim that I will make it easy for all of you. I do not claim that I have all the solutions. I do not claim certainly that we're not going to have troubles in the world, but, my friends, I have seen the world. We have visited 55 countries in the last 8 years. I have seen the men in the Kremlin. I know the enemies that confront us, and there is nothing that is more important, nothing believe me, than that America have firm, strong, courageous leadership to deal with this. I think we can provide it, and with the help of my colleague, Cabot Lodge, we will lead America to victory without war. We will lead the causes of freedom to victory without war. And this is what you want, I am sure, and if you do, let's go out and work for that victory here in this county and in this State of Pennsylvania. Thank you.
We know the right way, and our opponent offers a way which would have lost us our friends in Latin America - the tremendous outrage that they exploded with, once he made that very silly and foolish and immature suggestion of his that we ought to intervene directly in Cuba. Now, of course, he has jumped off it, just as he jumps off every position when we pin him down. I'm going to have more to say about that in Pittsburgh tonight, but let me say just one thing with regard to that. Can America in this time afford a well-intentioned man, but a man who, frankly, doesn't know the situation and who says one thing today and another thing tomorrow? That kind of man Mr. Khrushchev will make mince-meat of. That is what I'm talking about, because, believe me, what you need is consistency. Believe me, you cannot jump from one position to another. You can't say one thing one day and something else the other day. And, so, the last point that I want to make: I say, in addition to the ability to keep the peace, we also will lead this Nation in a way that the people of this district want it led. We are going to see that America moves forward on every front, economically, educationally, and in every other way, but we are going to do it in the American way - and that means not by turning everything over to the Federal Government, but by giving people a chance to spend their own money and to develop their own country the way they have been doing. That's why I say we are the ones who do not tell you: "Elect us, and we will give you promises that will mean raising your taxes, raising your prices and the like." You know that - and our opponents can do nothing else than that, because the programs they offer - remember, he isn't going to pay for them with his money. He doesn't even have that much. But let me say he's got to pay for them with yours, and I just do not believe in going out and buying the people's votes with their own money, and I don't think you do either. There is a way to progress, and it is the way my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I offer. It is the way of responsibility. It is the way of telling the people the truth. It is the way America has always solved its great problems in the past, and it's the way, too, in which the American leaders, our Presidents and others, have faith in this country, faith in its deepest ideals, faith in our God, faith in the rights that men have, that those rights belong to not only us, but the people throughout the world - and I want to assure you that if we have the opportunity to lead this country in the next 4 years, we will never forget the thousands of people we have seen across this country, millions of them, to see your faces. We will remember you. We will remember in seeing you that you are the heart of America, that you stand for what is best in America, and we will see that America at its best is presented to the world - and America at its best is what the world wants, America at its best, standing for freedom, standing for peace, not wanting to conquer anybody else but wanting for other people only what we have for ourselves - the right to be independent, the right to be free, the right to progress. This is what we want to present to the world, and if you feel that we are the ones who can do it, then let's have the biggest majority in this county we have ever had. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. I want to say first how much my wife, Pat, and I appreciate this wonderful crowd here in Johnstown. Incidentally, you know, I have visited an awful lot of cities and States, but I always know where I am, anyway. You know - a funny thing - I really couldn't believe it when somebody said when Mr. Kennedy was here he referred to this place as Johnson City - You know, that's the only time he's mentioned his running mate's name since he has been nominated. But, first, the fact that some of you would come out in this rather, shall we say, crisp weather, the fact that you would welcome us this way is indeed a very inspiring thing on this whistle-stop tour of Pennsylvania. However, I remember, John, the great meeting we had in the center of town, you remember, 4 years ago, and I said then that I was hoping I could come back. I didn't know then I would come back as a candidate for the Presidency, but, believe me, you have greatly outdone the crowd there, and I thank all of those who have made this such a wonderful success. We thank you for coming. I, too, want to express appreciation to all of the bands that are here. You know, the color, as we look around here, certainly indicates the competitive spirit of this city, and let's give them all a hand. Now, there are a number of subjects that I know you would like to hear discussed. I know many of you had the opportunity to hear our television debates. So, I will not go into the subjects that we were discussing there the last time in any detail, but I thought that since I was here in Johnstown, that what would be of greater interest to you was for me to take up at the outset a couple of points that I understand my opponent made when he was here. John Saylor was telling me a little earlier that he said, "I challenge the Vice President when he comes to Johnson City - I challenge him to discuss the depressed-areas bill. I challenge him to discuss the medical care bill" Well, I'm going to discuss them, and, believe me, he isn't going to like it, because it's the truth. Now, as far as the so-called distressed-area bills are concerned, let's set the record straight. President Eisenhower has been trying to get legislation through the Congress for years in this field. The Congress has stopped it. The Congress has passed some bills, which the President has vetoed. Why did he veto them? Because they wouldn't do the job. They would use a shotgun where you want to use a rifle. And using a shotgun, it would have meant instead of a place like Johnstown that needed a good rifle bullet to handle this problem, it would have gotten a little buckshot that wouldn't have done the job at all in a depressed area. What I am trying to say really is this: We need a depressed-area bill. But we need the right kind of bill. We have one which is supported by Senator Scott, John Saylor; one that I support, and that we're going to get through in the next Congress with the support of the American people. And it will do the job where they didn't act, and we're going to act. In other words, my friends, you will find they always talk a good game, but we produce on their promises, and we've been doing it for years, and we're going to do it again, too. Now, I want to talk about a subject that is also very close to my heart. I remember the year my father died, in 1956, in the election year. He was 77 years old. That year he had a number of doctor bills, operations. I remember they ran over $2,000. My mother also was ill that year, and together the bills of the doctors ran over $3,000. I want to tell you something about them. It was the best medical care that you could possibly get, and we have the best in the world, and we want to keep it that way; but my mother and father found it difficult to pay those bills. They did. They saved enough that they were able to, but I realize and you realize that for many of our older people, when they get beyond 65 particularly, it's a very difficult problem they are confronted with when a major illness strikes. Now, the question is: What can we do about it? My opponent says when he was here, "Oh, Mr. Nixon is against helping the older people who need medical care." Now, that is just a complete falsehood. It's a falsehood, and I will tell you why. He's against it, because if he hadn't been against it, he would have supported the bill that would have done something about it in the last Congress, and he didn't do that. Let me point out what I mean. You see, this problem is one that affects everybody over 65, and the bill that he wanted would have only applied to people who had social security, and that would take care of a lot; but you know there are 3 million older people who don't have social security at all. What are you going to do about them? He would do nothing. And, so, we had a bill that covered all the people over 65. And another thing: His bill was one that would have forced everybody who had social security, including the wealthy as well as those who were not as wealthy, to have compulsory health insurance whether they wanted it or not. Ours was a bill that provided that everybody over 65 who wanted health insurance could get it; that everybody who needed it would be encouraged to get it. We said that nobody who did not want it should be forced to have it against his will, and that's the American way to handle a problem of this type. Now, I could go on on these issues, but let me summarize simply in this way. We're going to move forward in America in these next 4 years, but the way to move forward is not to return to the policies we left in 1953, when Eisenhower cleaned up the mess Harry Truman left back here. The way to move forward is for Government to encourage the American people to develop to the full the tremendous abilities they have - and, believe me, we have the program that will do it. We will produce again in all of these areas, in which America wants progress. But one other point I would make: We will do it not with programs that will raise your taxes, that will raise your prices, and theirs will. And let me say to every housewife here: If you vote for our opponents, the prices of everything you buy in the grocery store will go up because of their farm program, incidentally, that won't help the farmer, either; but it will certainly have that effect, and they know it. Other prices will go up, and I say, my friends, that the American people want higher wages, yes; they want prosperity, yes; but they want it without inflation, and without war, and that's the kind we produce, and that's the kind you want. Now let me turn to the issue of foreign policy, because it is the most important of all. Why is it most important? Because, my friends, we can have the best jobs and the best medical care in the world, and it isn't going to make any difference if we're not around to enjoy it, and, therefore, the most important qualification of the next President is: Does he have the experience and the background to keep the peace, to keep it without surrender, and to extend freedom throughout the world. You heard us debate that last Friday. I want to say today that I believe Cabot Lodge and I have some experience the American people should consider. For 7 years we have participated in the making of and discussing of great decisions. For 7 years we have sat in the Security Council and the Cabinet with the President of the United States - Lebanon, Quemoy, and Matsu - we were there. We know what it means to handle these problems. And one other thing: We have had the experience of dealing with Mr. Khrushchev. We both sat opposite him at the conference table, and whoever is the next President of the United States has to be able to do that. He must not be fooled by him. He must be able to be sure that we're firm, without being belligerent. My friends, I think we've done a pretty good job, and I think the American people know what we will do, and I think that's why they want us to continue the leadership that Dwight Eisenhower has given. Now what do our opponents offer in this field? They say we want the same thing. We can't question that. Everybody wants peace and everybody wants it without surrender, but, my friends, look at what he would have done had he been in the position of Commander in Chief these last 7½ years. In Quemoy and Matsu - you heard him on that television debate say we should have sliced off these islands, given them to the Communists. Why? Not because he was interested, of course, in surrendering anything; but as a matter of principle because he apparently thought this would bring peace, and that's the kind of woolly thinking that got the United States in the Korean war. The President didn't do it. That's why we kept the peace. And then you remember again my opponent said, "President Eisenhower could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev," but he couldn't do that, because if he had you see that would have encouraged Khrushchev to do the very thing that we must not have - to blackmail the United States, because whenever you give a dictator an inch that he doesn't deserve, he takes not only a mile, he'll take the whole world. Therefore, we can't give him that inch, and I'm sure I'm not going to give him the inch anyplace in the world. Now, in the final analysis, then, I say to you that we know what peace demands. We know that what it needs is a strong America, a firm America - one in which we will be firm in our policy toward those who threaten the peace, but one in which we will always remember that it's the responsibility of the President of the United States never to lose his temper, never to shoot from the hip where the whole peace of the world is involved. Finally, I say to you: If you believe that Cabot Lodge and I are the ones who can give America the leadership it needs, then I want you to go to work. I want you to work hard. I want you to go through this district as it has never been gone through before. Support all of our candidates, because, believe me, they're a fine team, but, as you work and as you vote for us at the Presidential level, at the congressional level, remember: You're not just voting for a man or for a party, but you're voting - and it must be this way in your hearts and in your minds - you're voting for what you think America needs. Only if you believe that we are the men that America needs in this critical period, only then can I ask for your support. But if you believe it, then I ask for all of you to go out and work for us. Go out and vote for us - not for us, but for America, and for America you will also be voting for the cause of freedom throughout the world. Remember, what we do this year, 1960, affects you; affects our children; but it affects the hopes of people throughout the world - the people of Poland whom I saw a year ago, 250,000 of them on the streets shouting "Long live America"; the people even in Russia; the people in all the 50 countries we visited. We have the hopes of the world in our hands; let's be worthy of it. Let's be worthy by being strong at home in our economy; by being strong militarily; but mainly being strong in our faith, never thinking of America as a second-rate country, because she isn't, always thinking of America as the best nation in the world, believing in the right things. If we think that way, if we believe that way, we will win this struggle, and this will be the greatest century in the history of the world, because of what a great people the American people are. Thank you very much.
I am delighted to be here on the same program with my fellow Republican candidates and with Irving Whalley, our candidate for Congress. Up and down the line I commend them all to you. I certainly know they are the best men for the job, and I know you do, too, as you come out here and campaign with us. The second point that I want to make is that I feel a personal interest in this particular area. I understand there may be a few students from Penn State over here. Is that right? Fine. My father's youngest brother, who my father always said was the brightest of all the Nixons and the best, was a professor at Penn State for many years, still lives at State College and he's always told me this is the very best part of the country. So here we are, and we're glad to be here. And now I want to give you the reasons why I believe that our team, the team of Nixon-Lodge is the team that you should vote for, clearly apart from the party of which you maybe a member, but in terms of what is best for America. The first point is this: more important than any other issue - more important than any other issue. Which man, which candidate for the Presidency can keep the peace for this country and keep it without surrender? I think all Americans realize the importance of that issue today. Now why is this so vitally important? Why do I find that, whether I am in Hawaii, where it's much warmer than it is here, or here in Pennsylvania, or up in Maine, or down in the South, or the North, everybody is thinking of that? Because they realize that unless we keep the peace, everything else we do isn't going to amount to anything. We can have the best schools and the best housing and the best jobs that anybody can imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we and our children and our grandchildren aren't around to enjoy them. So, on that point, I simply want to say first that we offer to you an experience of being with this administration, with the President for the past 7½ years. Both Cabot Lodge and I have sat with the President in making the great decisions in those 7½ years. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have both sat opposite him at the conference table and I can only say in respect to the two of us that we, knowing him, are not going to be fooled by him and that is what it is going to take if we are going to avoid war on the one side or surrender on the other. Now in this particular period it is essential that the United States - it seems to me - does not take a chance - not take a chance on leadership that is inexperienced leadership that on occasion after occasion has indicated, when the chips were down, that a mistake might be made. Just let me say this: I'm sure some of you have heard the television debates in which Senator Kennedy and I have participated. You may have heard that each man has been in Government for 14 years, but as you folks well know, it isn't how long you've been in Washington or anyplace else, that counts. It's what you've been through. It isn't how long or how many years you've been anyplace. It's how long you've lived in those years. In that respect I think that all of you recognize that I have had an opportunity for 7½ years to meet with and to participate in the making of great decisions. I have had the opportunity to know what we are faced with in the world. And knowing that, I can assure you that we will keep America strong. We will see to it that we do not make mistakes at the diplomatic table, mistakes that have led this Nation in the past into war, and that need not lead it into war in the future. You have this choice as against our opponent who has not had this experience. In this campaign he has indicated by what he has said with regard to Quemoy and Matsu, with regard to his suggestion that the President could have apologized to Khrushchev for the U-2 flight, with regard to the latest boner that he has pulled, that on our policy on Cuba, if he had been President at those times, we could have made mistakes that would have been had for America, that could have led us right into the very disaster that we've been trying to avoid. My friends, we cannot take a chance in this critical year on untried inexperienced leadership in the White House of the United States, particularly when the man who asks for that opportunity is one who has "shot from the hip," one who, when the chips were down - and in this campaign he had to make up his mind - he made up his mind in the wrong direction. One other point I would add: I want to say that as you stand in this area, you've heard a lot of talk by our opponents with regard to who is responsible for failing to get action on the bills that the administration has been asking for year after year to help the depressed areas of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and other States, and I want to lay to rest once and for all the responsibility in that respect. It is directly on our opponents. They have blocked legislation in this field. The only legislation they ever sent to the President would not have solved the problem. It would not have provided help to the areas that really needed it, because it was the typical pork-barrel approach that certainly would not help here and would have given promises without performance. I say that with our leadership, particularly since I am supporting the bill that Senator Scott and Congressmen on the Republican side worked out, we will do something about this instead of talking about it. That's all our opponents have been doing. They have talked but we produce on the promises that they make - and we're going to do it again. One last point, and then this train will have to move. When you vote this November, you're going to be voting not only for your future and that of your children, you're going to be voting - and I speak particularly to all of those who are housewives here - to affect the prices of everything you buy in the grocery store. You're voting to affect the taxes you're going to pay because we have a clear choice here. My opponent will spend billions of dollars more for his programs, and they will produce less than mine, but remember, it's your money and not his. I think that the American people at this point realize that in these past 7½ years we have had the kind of leadership in which the President has recognized that he must fight against pork-barrel schemes, which would spend more of the peoples' money in Washington so that you have less to spend here. I don't think we can afford to have in the White House a man who, every time there's a problem, says, spend money - not his, but yours. That's why I say you can't afford him in the White House. No, my friends, these are the things at stake. I say, if you want to move forward with America, if you want real progress, if you want progress that will save the peoples' money, spend what is necessary but not a cent more. But above all, if you want the kind of leadership that knows who the enemies of peace and freedom are - consider Cabot Lodge, my running mate. He has had more experience in this field and couldn't have done a better job fighting for the cause of peace and freedom. He and I will work together, work together for you in this cause. We leave it to you. If this is the kind of leadership you want, this is what we will provide. We ask you to go out and work in this cause. Remember, there are 2 weeks left. This is more important than anything else you'll be doing in this 2 weeks. Work for the victory not just of a party or of a couple of men, but for the victory of the principles that will keep America safe at home and safe abroad. Thank you very much.
The gyrations of the London gold market are flashing an important message to Americans: We must keep the dollar sound. Several factors have clearly been at work in driving the speculative price of gold well above our official figure of $35 an ounce. But there can be no doubt that a major contributing factor has been widespread fear growing out of the ill-considered proposals and suggestions made by my opponent concerning the fiscal and monetary policies of our country. Up to now, I have spoken almost wholly of the domestic consequences of these dangerous proposals. But with concern growing abroad as evidenced by press reaction, I feel impelled to alert the American people to the widespread irresponsible course the Senator is marking out. After major London newspapers published reports last week that attributed to my opponent the idea of devaluing the dollar, his press secretary issued a categorical denial. That was a prudent thing to do. It does not, however, remove the fears over the future of the dollar generated by his platform spending proposals, his pronouncements, and his subsequent spending promises. The Times of London said on October 21 that the dollar "* * * has hardly benefited from the implication throughout Mr. Kennedy's election campaign of higher Government expenditures." Inquiries in principal money centers of the world confirm this ominous fact. As Americans, we know how a weakening of the dollar at home will cut our savings, dilute the buying power of our a checks, and reduce the value of our pensions and social security. But why should Americans be concerned with what people in other countries think about the future of the dollar? There are two reasons: First, we have become the world's banker. Since the end of World War II, foreigners, other than international institutions, have accumulated more than $17 billion in short-term claims against us. They owe us much more, but what they owe us is due over a long term. Of course, we can carry out any policies that we, as a people, choose to pursue. But, if we pursue policies that tear away confidence in the value of the dollar, foreigners may choose to redeem their short-term claims against us by withdrawals in the form of gold - just as you would withdraw your deposit from your bank if you believed it was not soundly managed. We must not allow anyone to create a suspicion that would, with all its grim consequences in effect lead to a run on the bank. Second, we must be concerned about reaction overseas because the dollars other countries hold serve as backing against which they issue their own currency. If the dollar should lose its soundness, then a shadow could likewise be cast on these other currencies. To anyone willing to look and listen, it should be crystal clear that the ability of our own country and of the whole free world to maintain high levels of economic activity, to provide jobs and goods and services for all our people, to sustain a strong defense over long periods of time - all these depend in a critical way on the integrity of the U.S. dollar; loss of that integrity would be an irreparable blow at U.S. prestige. The London Times well says that the Kennedy campaign is not benefiting the dollar. That is the British flair for understatement in its finest form. Consider these aspects of the opposition campaign and you see how each one strikes at confidence in our currency: Spending proposals of such vast scope have been made as to force huge, new, inflation-breeding deficit financing in peacetime or such tax increases that the economy would stagnate. Clear indication has been given that the independence of the Federal Reserve System would be compromised through the use of Presidential influence in order to carry out my opponent's platform pledges. Saving of interest charges on the national debt by at least $1 billion a year has been proposed, a result which could be attained - since the debt is not to be reduced - only by an inflationary, forced expansion of the Nation's money supply. This program of flagrant fiscal and monetary irresponsibility is giving cause for grave alarm at home about the future of the dollar. It is not hard to see why it is generating alarm among people abroad who also have a great stake in the dollar. Nor can my opponent's press secretary wave these deep-lying apprehensions aside by merely issuing general statements or by easy reference to the Senator's "conservative" speech to a group of business paper editors in New York - a speech which used many reassuring words but, somehow, just doesn't fit at all with the Senator's platform or his campaign dialogue on fiscal and monetary matters. For the opposition now to demand very easy credit, artificially low interest rates, a subservient Federal Reserve System, and huge new spending programs - without provision for paying the bills can only continue to generate fears about the dollar at home and abroad. Our economy is strong and the dollar is strong. It would be dangerous in the extreme to tamper with the strength. Neither this Nation - nor the free world - can afford a debasement of our currency. I am determined to fight and win this election to remove the possibility of any such threat from becoming a reality. I am determined to arouse my fellow citizens to the perils that lie ahead if the counsels of the opposition are accepted. I am confident the judgment of the American people will support our cause.
I have a special reason that I have been looking forward to this meeting other than the ones I have mentioned. It happens that this is the home congressional district of my father. He was born, as some of you have probably heard, in the State of Ohio, not in Athens, but over in Vinton County, on a farm, apparently not a very rich farm, because he left it quite early, his mother having died, and he went on to Columbus, Ohio, worked there on the street railway, went on to California, and met my mother, and that's how I got here, finally back to Vinton County, but I want to say insofar as this particular area is concerned, I remember all the years I was growing up, hearing the names like Athens, Chillicothe, and MacArthur, all of those that are perhaps well known to you here in this area, and I want to say, coming here, therefore, has a special personal meaning to me, and for that reason, in talking to you, I would like to talk to you not in terms simply of the issues which sometimes seem so far away from us, but rather in terms of our Government in Washington, in what it means to every person individually. The first thing I would like to mention is that I recall my father in the years we were growing up - there were five boys in the family - he never used that phrase that sometimes you may hear: "Boy, I remember the good old days." He used to say, "Well, now, I remember those good old days, too and," he said, "things are a lot better now than they were then. He also never said, "Look, we're going to be well satisfied with things the way they are. Good as they are," he said, "what we want is a better life for our children than we have for ourselves." This is true of all of us. We want to see this country move forward. We want to see it move forward, because this country will never grow old. This country has always been filled with a great spirit, a spirit of conquering new frontiers, a spirit in which we are always moving into the future, never satisfied with either the past or the present.  Now in this connection, I've been very interested to note a few Kennedy signs here, and I'm always glad to have them, because it gives us a few people to convert. So, we're glad they came here.  Now the question is, and I particularly speak to those here from the university: How do you move into these new frontiers? How do you cross the frontiers? And I want to tell you: One thing you have to bear in mind, if you're going to cross a new frontier, you can't do it in an old broken-down jalopy that we abandoned in 1953, when we left Mr. Truman behind.  And all that our opponent offers in this campaign: "Go back; to the rear march; to the rear march to the policies we left in 1953." That's all they offer us. Whether it's monetary policy, whether it's government spending, whether it's government controls, whether it's school policy, whatever it is, we think we should go back to those policies. Well, my friends let me tell you this: America had ground to a standstill in 1953. We had found in that period, if you will recall - and I ask every housewife here to remember. Do you remember it? Wages went up in the 7 Truman years, but do you remember you didn't have any more at the end of the month, because prices went up 50 percent? Do you remember that? Ate it all up.  All right. We stopped that kind of business, so that in the Eisenhower years wages have gone up and we have held prices in line. And we want to continue that kind of leadership.  My friends, there is one choice you have to make in this campaign as far as that issue is concerned. Just remember this: My opponent says he's going to spend more, and that's right. But it isn't his money; it's your money he's going to spend.  And I'll tell you why his spending isn't going to bring the progress. Because the way to progress in this country, the way to cross frontiers, is not through simply building a huge government bureaucracy in Washington. Look, how did we cross the frontiers in the past? By strengthening individuals. By recognizing and having faith in individual enterprise, and that's what we do, and that's what he would not do, and that 5 why we will progress and that's why he won't - and the American people know it.  And if I could just say a word about spending. Remember this: I know many times many people say, "Mr. Nixon, why should we bother coming out to a meeting, all just jampacked in like this? Why should we bother working in a campaign like this in these last 2 weeks?"  I'll tell you why. As you vote on November the 8th, you will be affecting the prices of everything you buy in the store; you will be affecting the taxes you will pay in the years to come; you will be affecting the future of your children, your grandchildren, as far as peace is concerned, as far as prices and taxes are concerned. Our opponent's policies cannot be put into effect, and I know that, and he knows it, without raising taxes or prices or both; either that or he's got to abandon his platform. I say America can move forward without taking from the people more in prices and taxes than we are taking at the present time, and I think that's what you want, and that's the choice that we give you in this campaign. Now let us turn to the other point I want to make. What about the future? What about the future insofar as keeping peace in the world is concerned? I see a sign back there, and I want to talk about it just a moment. It says: "Push disarming programs. Halt the arms race." Let me tell you about disarmament. When people say, "I'm for disarmament," and when some people write to me and say "Why, when Mr. Khrushchev comes over and says he's for total disarmament - why do we have to insist on inspection? Why," they say, "couldn't we just do it? Wouldn't that be real leadership in the world? Wouldn't that be bold and imaginative?" Yes, it would; but do you know what would happen? The moment the United States ever enters into an agreement for disarmament, which would result in increasing his strength as against ours, we don't help the cause of peace. We hurt it, because - why is America the guardian of peace today? Because we're the strongest nation in the world, and the difference is: We don't want to use our strength for anything except to keep the peace. We don't want anything from anybody else, but remember this: The moment the men in the Kremlin ever have more strength than we have, the moment we ever enter into a disarmament agreement, which would not have ironclad inspection, in which they would gain strength against us, we find that the enemies of peace then, the men in the Kremlin, are in a position where they can do what they want, and that is: They would use their strength to start war. They would use it because their aim is to conquer the world. So, my friends, let me say this: We will work for disarmament, yes. We will work to stop tests and get an agreement, yes; but we will never agree to anything unless we are sure they are going to keep the bargain because that's how America has got into trouble in the past, and we are not going to make that mistake in the future. And I think all of you want us to do that. Let me give you one other example. What about this whole problem of how you keep the peace in the world. What about this whole problem of what kind of leadership will do it? And here again people say, "Mr. Nixon, why is it that the President was so rigid when we were defending the islands of Quemoy and Matsu? Why was it that in 1955 - why didn't he go along with Senator Kennedy and the other 11 Senators who opposed his policy and said, 'What we ought to do is to cut off these islands'?" I'll tell you why. Again because the President knew history. He knew that when you're dealing with a dictator the moment you make a concession to him that says, "Look, we'll give you this little bit, and then we'll have peace," it never satisfies him. It encourages him to have more. It was that way with Hitler. It was that way with Korea. You remember Dean Acheson in 1950 saying we won't defend Korea? It didn't bring peace. It brought war. My friends, the President was right; Senator Kennedy was wrong, in 1955, and the proof of it is we've kept the peace without surrender. Let's continue the President's policies and not turn to his. And, incidentally, in that connection, this is clearly above any partisan consideration, it is significant to note that Senator Lausche supports the President's policies in this connection, as do many Democrats in the Senate, as well as Republicans. In fact, a majority of the Democrats supported the President and opposed his position. But, let's get it right down to what really is the consideration you must have in mind. You have two men to choose from here. In my case, in the case of my colleague, Cabot Lodge, we know the men in the Kremlin. We have talked to them. We have had discussions with them, and you know how we will react, too. In the case of our opponents, you have an idea as to how they will react, but in instance after instance, in Quemoy and Matsu, with regard to the summit conference, and again on the Cuban situation, you have seen, I think, a pattern of conduct which indicates certainly a tendency to rash and impulsive action, which would be, in my opinion, very dangerous in this period, and I'll tell you why. In dealing with these men, you must remember what kind of men they are, and these are men determined to conquer the world. They understand strength. They understand firmness. They understand consistency. One thing that always plays into their hands is inconsistency, jumping from one position to another. This is what creates mis-calculations. So, I say to you : America should not take a chance on inexperienced leadership, however well intentioned it is, when you have experienced leadership that know these men and will deal with them effectively in the years ahead. And, now, if I may turn to one final point, and I mention this particularly to this group here, because there are some students here: Necessarily, in a campaign we have to discuss what we term the so-called hard issues in terms of foreign policy, specific issues like Cuba, Quemoy and Matsu, Lebanon, et cetera, and there is a tendency for Americans to forget the really important asset that we have in this great struggle in which we're engaged. You know what it is? It isn't our great military strength, and it isn't our great economic strength, and these are both tremendously significant and necessary; but the strength of America is in what we believe. You will hear this in the college classrooms and you will tend perhaps sometimes to think that it's old hat; but remember this: I have seen the world, and in 55 countries, on both sides of the Iron Curtain, America is respected and America stands high to the extent that we stand for the right. What is the right? It means our faith, the faith that we inherited, our faith in God, our faith in the rights of men, our belief that men and their rights to freedom come from God and cannot be taken away from men, our belief that every nation has a right to be independent and that it is the American destiny, and it is, not simply to keep freedom for ourselves, but to extend it to all men. This is what we must believe. This is what the young people of America, whatever your partisan affiliation, must believe, because as America is strong at home in its faith, our President, whoever he is, will be willing and able and effective to lead the world to victory in this fight for freedom, and victory without war. It is this that we want. It is this that I stand for, and it is this support that we ask today. So, I say to you: If you believe this is the kind of leadership you want, it is only on that basis that we ask for it. And may I also say in that connection that I am proud to be here with my fellow candidates on the Republican ticket, and I would certainly like to see the district that my father lived in, the district that he grew up in and that he talked about - I'd like to see it represented by the fine Republican who stands on my side here, Oakley Collins. Thank you very much.
As you know we are entering the home stretch of this campaign. It's hard to realize because Pat and I have been traveling a lot these past few months. It's hard to realize it is only 2 weeks from today when all of you of voting age will be voting. In these past few weeks, Pat and I have traveled to 47 States in this Union. We have only three more to go to complete the 50 States that we want to reach before the campaign is over. Incidentally, as all of you well know, this will be the first time a presidential candidate has ever traveled to 50 States because we've never had that many before. But we intend to do it if we possibly can and certainly, as we have traveled around the country, one of the greatest inspirations of all is to come to meetings like this. As I look over this crowd, I realize what a tremendous responsibility whoever is the President of this country is going to have in the next 4 years. I know that in this audience are many people who are Republicans, members of my party. I know there are many who are Democrats. I know there are some who are independents. I see in this crowd some older people and some young ones. I see a number of children whose future we are concerned about and consequently you can't travel through America, you can't speak, as I have, all over the Nation, in Hawaii way out in the Pacific and Maine up in the north-east, down in Florida and Georgia, and then in other parts of the country - you can't possibly travel through America without realizing the responsibility we have. But also, my friends, you realize something else, something that ought to be stated again and again and again and something I particularly state with all of these young people here. This is a great country, and anybody who runs it down, anybody who suggests, for example, that we have a second-rate education, that we're second in science that our economy is beginning to run down and that we run the risk in this country of having America end up as a second-rate nation just doesn't know the United States of America - and just mark that down. I can tell you we have problems in this country, problems that we will solve. We're not a perfect country, but certainly as we look at those problems, we are not going to solve them with an attitude that we in America have anything to be ashamed of as far as our system of government is concerned because - let me tell you something else.  My wife and I have also had another great experience in these past 7½ years, because of the opportunity you have given me to serve as Vice President. We've traveled to 55 countries in the world. We've been all over Asia, in Latin America, in Africa and Europe, and we've seen literally millions of people on the streets of Djakarta, on the streets of Bogotá, and in the other great capitals of the world. We know something of the problems of the world and we also know what the world thinks of the United States.  Just to set the record straight on that: when people say that the prestige of the United States is low; when people say that people abroad don't like our system, they don't like us; just let me remind you of another thing - that is that every place we have gone in the world we found there are people who don't like this country. This was true, for example, when we were in South America. The Communists stirred up mobs against us. We found, as you saw, that the Communists also did that in Tokyo so the President was unable to visit there.  But also, make no mistake about it, America stands high in the feelings of the world. We stand high because we believe in the right things; just remember that people are not so dumb as you might guess. Mr. Khrushchev, for example, doesn't gain prestige for communism when he takes his shoes off and bangs on the table at the United Nations. He doesn't gain prestige for communism, and President Eisenhower does gain prestige and affection for the United States when he handles himself in a dignified, fine way as he has as President of this country for the last 7½ years.  So I say to all of those who are here: Don't lose your faith in America. Don't lose your faith in the American people, and don't lose it in the young people of this country either, because they are the future of America. And we, by our devotion, by our dedication, will build a greater country even than we have enjoyed ourselves.  I emphasize that particularly, as I have all along the route today, because I am traveling through what is my father's home State and also that part of the State from which he came.  He often spoke of this part of Ohio. He spoke of it and of all the people that he knew here. And I know, as a result of what he learned here, as a result of the associations that he had, that I inherited from him a lot of Ohio qualities. I hope the best ones, incidentally, and there are good ones here as I am sure most of you would agree. But in any event, as I thought of him today, as we were traveling here, I often reminded audiences as I remind you of what he used to tell us: That in the United States we never look back and we are never satisfied with the present but we are always trying to build a better future.  However good things are in America, we say there are ways to move into a better future. And I want you to know as I see the problems of this country and the opportunities, I know where America can move and how we can move and I'll tell you how we're going to do it.  We're going to do it by having faith in what has made this country great. You know what it is. It hasn't been government but it's been the people. What we have to do is to give the American people more opportunity, more chance for all Americans to develop to the full their creative abilities and then we will have progress and the greatest progress that this world has ever seen.  The Government, yes, has things to do. The Government must do those things that people cannot, but my friends, as distinguished from my opponent, I say whenever the people can spend a dollar better than the Government can, the people ought to spend it at home here in Ohio rather than sending it down to Washington, D.C. I am proud that I have programs that will not have the effect of raising your prices, raising your taxes, as would my opponent's. I believe I know something about what a family budget is and how hard it is to meet it, and I know it is the responsibility of the President not to go around the country making promises and then paying off those promises, not with his own but with the people's money. I realize as far as you are concerned it is his responsibility and it will be my responsibility to see to it that whatever we do in Washington we will do it as efficiently as possible so that the people back home, the housewives who are trying to keep the family budget will be able to have the best opportunity possible to make both ends meet, and we can't do it if we waste a cent there in Washington that we don't have to. So, these things may I say I feel very deeply and I convey them to you today as we meet on this occasion. There is one other point that I wish to discuss, which is basically more important than all the rest. I've been talking about jobs and the prices of things we buy, our schools and our health. You know, my friends, all of these things aren't going to make a bit of difference if we aren't around to enjoy them. I have seen what war does. I have been abroad in war and then I have been to Berlin and I have seen the terrible devastation there. I have seen the heart of Warsaw, still devastation left after 15 years, after World War II. I have been in Japan, in Tokyo, I have seen what war did there. This was another kind of war. When we think of what an atomic war would do, as John Bricker, who was such a distinguished member of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, can tell you, it is simply nothing at all compared to the kind of war we have had in the past, and therefore the major responsibility of the next President of the United States, believe me, is to keep the peace - as President Eisenhower has kept the peace - keep the peace without surrender for America and the world. I want the opportunity to work in that cause. I'll tell you what I offer in working in it. I do not say that it's easy, because I know that it isn't. I do say that I know those who threaten the peace of the world. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I have sat opposite him at the conference table. I know how tough and ruthless and fanatical he is and I know, my friends, that with this man you have to be just as firm as he is; just as dedicated to the right as he is to the wrong. I know that you must never make a concession to him without getting one in return. I know that you must never agree to disarmament, for example, unless you have an ironclad agreement from him that he's going to do likewise.  I know that that kind of firmness is what leads to peace. It's what has meant peace under President Eisenhower. It is what will lead to peace in the future. And what I ask today from the American people for me and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, is for you to give us the chance to lead this Nation, recognizing as we do that the responsibilities are tremendous.  If I could add a word with regard to my colleague and running mate, I intend to give him assignments on a full-time basis in this field, to the extent of the time that he can spare from his constitutional duties, of working constantly to extend freedom and of working for peace throughout the world; and I say there is no man who is better qualified, who has done a better job of fighting for peace and freedom than Cabot Lodge, our representative to the United Nations in these past 7½ years.  And so you have here two men, Cabot Lodge and myself, who know Mr. Khrushchev, who have been trained with and under President Eisenhower, who submit our qualifications to you. We pledge to you devotion to your best interests, but also we pledge that we will always keep before the world the true picture of America.  What is that picture? I say this particularly when all of these young people are here, because they carry on a legacy that we will leave. Don't get the impression that all America has to offer to the world is our great military strength. We are the strongest nation in the world. Don't get the impression that all we have to offer to the world is the fact that we're the richest country in the world, and we are. This means something to people abroad, as does our military strength. But, my friends, you know what really counts? You know what counts in Poland, and even in Siberia, where we have been? You know what counts in New Delhi or down in Caracas or in other parts of the world? It's the fact that America stands for great ideals which are bigger than this country, which are as big as the whole world, itself.  What are those ideals? You see them here in your city, in this State, in this Nation. The ideals that we stand for are developed in the churches, in the homes, in the schools of America. They are our faith in God, our belief in the rights of all men to be free; our belief that the rights men have are rights that come from God and cannot be taken away be any man; our belief that every nation has a right to be independent.  These are the things that America stands for. And also we are a nation that wants nothing from any other people in the world except what we have for ourselves - the right to be independent; the right to be free.  We are strong, why? Not because we want to use our strength to conquer the world, but because we want to use our strength to free the world so that everybody can be free, so that everybody can live in peace and freedom.  This is what I believe. This is what you believe. If we believe it, and if we work together in this cause, we can see in this period which we are entering the greatest progress that America and also that the world has ever seen. It is that which I am fighting for in this campaign. It is these principles to which my colleague and I are dedicated, and it is for this cause that we ask you to work in these next 2 weeks.  Thank you.
Senator Kennedy in Friday night's debate said to me about Quemoy and Matsu: "I challenge you tonight to deny that the administration has sent at least several missions to persuade Chiang Kai-shek to withdraw from these islands. That is the testimony of General Twining and the Assistant Secretary of State in 1958." Senator Kennedy challenged me to deny this and I do flatly, categorically and emphatically deny it. Not only were there not several missions for such a purpose - there was no such mission at all. On one occasion the then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. Arthur W. Radford, and the former Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, Walter S. Robertson, made a special trip to Taiwan (Formosa). Secretary of State Dulles stopped there several times in his travels as, at one time, did former Secretary of Defense Neil H. McElroy. None of these people had a mission to persuade Chiang Kai-shek to withdraw from and thus to abandon Quemoy and Matsu, nor did any even discuss with him abandonment of those islands by the Nationalist Chinese. All of the people I have named (with the exception of Secretary Dulles, of course), and including General Twining, have by telephone since the debate confirmed what I have said above and have further indicated that any discussions that took place with Chiang Kai-shek related only to the deployment of Nationalist Chinese ground forces between the main island of Taiwan, the Pescadores Islands, and the offshore islands of Quemoy and Matsu. In other words, they talked to him, not about abandoning Quemoy and Matsu, but only about how best to relate the defense preparations on those islands to the overall objective of maintaining the security of Formosa and the Pescadores. But more important than Senator Kennedy's glaring error of fact - the complete inaccuracy of his charge - is the Senator's lack of understanding which his statement reveals. Senator Kennedy in previous statements has glibly written off Quemoy and Matsu as not worth defending, and now in the last debate he narrowly concerned himself with the irrelevant question of what various emissaries from the United States did or did not say to Chiang Kai-shek. Senator Kennedy fails to grasp the total picture. He fails to mention what is really at stake in this area - the security of the free world in the western Pacific, the preservation of peace through prevention of the steps that could lead to war. Quemoy and Matsu cannot be viewed in isolation and casually dismissed as not worth defending in and of themselves because they can, in certain circumstances, relate importantly to this total picture of western Pacific security - as the Formosa resolution itself reflects - and to the safeguarding of peace. This understanding of the situation makes it out of the question for responsible U.S. officials to have tried to persuade the Nationalist Chinese wantonly to abandon their islands of Quemoy and Matsu to Communist China as Senator Kennedy charges. For these reasons it is obvious that Senator Kennedy's charge is more than incredible - it is utterly unknowing and irresponsible.
 The VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.  Ambassador Lodge, my colleague on this ticket, all of the distinguished guests here on this platform, this great audience in front of me and in back of me, and to all of you listening on television and radio, may I first say that to have this particular broadcast, the first one since the convention, originate in Cincinnati, Ohio, is a proud moment for me - first, because, from a personal standpoint, it is my father's home State. And, second, because it is the home State of one of the greatest families in America's political history, that of William Howard and Robert Taft.  I can only say after a day of campaigning in Ohio, whistlestopping before we got to Cincinnati and then the tremendous reception we've had here - and Cabot, I am sure you will agree with me on this - that while I was in college I never made the football team, although I went out for it for 4 years. But now I can be a college blocking back after getting through these crowds. In fact, I met Ted Kluzewski as I came in and he agreed that I was already qualified for that.  And I'm sure you know how proud I am to have been introduced on this occasion by my running mate, to be introduced in such generous terms, and I would like to point out that one of the many differences between our ticket and that of our opponents is that I'm always proud to be introduced by my running mate any place in the United States.  I believe that the decision that the people of the United States will be making on election day may well be the most important decision that as individuals, as voters, they may ever make in their lives. I believe this because of the times in which we are entering and the times through which we have passed. I believe it because, as I see the problems that confront America and the world, there has never been a time when the President of the United States, who is elected, can affect so much by his actions what happens to every family in America. Because by how you vote on November the 8th you can determine the prices of the things you buy and pay for in the stores. You will determine the taxes that you will pay. But, more than that, you may well determine the future of the United States and the world - whether we will lose the peace. These are the things that you will determine by the choice that you make.  I feel that the choice is vitally important. That is why I have carried this campaign on an unprecedented travel schedule to 47 States already, and why I intend to carry it, if I can, to 50 States of this Union to bring the message home to the American people.  And every place I go I find that our people are vitally interested in a number of subjects. In the time that I have tonight I cannot cover them all, but I can touch upon those in which I find the greatest interest. One, of course, is one here at home. People are concerned about the Federal budget, but they're also mighty concerned about the family budget. And they are beginning to realize that if they vote for our opponents, they are voting to raise their prices and raise their taxes and they do not want that. And that's why they're going to vote for us rather than for our opponents. My colleague and I are proud to be running on the platform which will bring the greatest progress that this Nation has ever seen, which will bring us progress in education, progress in equality of opportunity for all of our citizens, progress in housing, progress in dealing with the depressed areas, the farm problem and all the other knotty problems that we have, but progress that will always be based on a great American principle - that the way to progress in America is not primarily through what the government does, but through what people do and what the government allows the people to do. So, tonight we say we will certainly produce more and we will spend less of your money in the process, and we believe that makes sense to every person listening, Democrat or Republican, to this broadcast tonight. And then there is another point that should be made, and this is the one that Cabot Lodge spoke of in his introduction. It is the most vital issue of all. What could be more important than a job? What could be more important than good education? What could be more important than prices that you can afford to pay? My friends, it is being around to enjoy all the good things that we produce in this country. I say that the major qualification of the next President of the United States is this: Is he equipped, by experience and by judgment and by background, to keep the peace, to keep it without surrender, and, more than that, does he have the qualifications which will extend freedom without war throughout the world? This is the major test, and this is the qualification which my colleague and I offer to you tonight in this campaign for the American people. He spoke very generously of my experience. It would not be appropriate for me to refer to my own, but I can speak of his, and may I say this: That I don't think any man in the world today has had more experience, and I don't think any man in the world today could have done a better job, than my colleague, Cabot Lodge, as our representative to the United Nations, fighting for the cause of peace and freedom. And I say to you: You know what we can do. You know how we will react to Mr. Khrushchev or to anyone else because we have been through the test. Now let us look at our opponent for a moment. What do we know about him? First of all, we know something about him as far as this campaign is concerned. On three occasions during our debates the American people have had an opportunity to see how he would have made a decision differently from the way the President of the United States has made that decision, decisions affecting the security of his country. And, so, you must test him, as you test us, by that record. The first was in 1955. The decision involved Quemoy and Matsu. Two islands far away, but two islands of freedom. The President asked the Congress to give him the right to defend Formosa and to include these islands in the complex, recognizing that in dealing with a dictator you cannot slice off a bit of freedom and say, "Here, take this, this may be all that you want, and we can have peace." My opponent disagreed with that decision then. He disagreed with it again in 1959. He disagrees with it again in 1960, too. The President was right and he was wrong on that decision. I think the American people recognize that today. And the second decision came just last May. The President went to Paris to attend a summit conference. All the hopes of the world were wrapped up in that conference. Mr. Khrushchev came to that conference, and you recall the U-2 flights that occurred, and Mr. Khrushchev came to the President of the United States and he said, "Apologize, express regrets, for these flights." And the President of the United States said, "No, I will not apologize." And here again we found my opponent disagreeing. He criticized the President. He said, and I quote him exactly - without notes, incidentally, "The President could have apologized. He could have expressed regrets." And here again the President was right and my opponent was wrong, and the American people know it. And then came a third test, and this a very difficult one. Here we had a little "pipsqueak" dictator, Castro, down in Cuba. The question is not who is against Castro. The question is how you handle him. So, the President of the United States, acting properly, having in mind that we have to keep our friends in Latin America, having in mind our treaty commitments, decided that we will quarantine him, quarantine him economically and politically, having in mind the fact that the Cuban people would have the right to choose the kind of government they might want. But my opponent said "No." He said this wasn't enough. This was too little and too late. He said the Government of the United States should support the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba - and again I quote him exactly - and again he was wrong and the President was right, because what my opponent would have done would have violated five treaties. It caused dismay and concern among our allies throughout the world. It would have violated the U.N. Charter. It would have invited even aggressive action, I believe, in this hemisphere. And, so, we have three tests here: Quemoy and Matsu - he would have acted one way, different from the President. The Paris Conference and the U-2 flights, he would have acted another way, different from the President. And then on Cuba he acted another way, or would have acted another way. Three times he's been up. Three times he's been wrong. Putting it another way: Three times he's been up to bat and three times he has struck out - and I think that's enough. I think it's the same in politics as it is in baseball. When a man has that kind of record, you don't raise his salary and make him the cleanup hitter. You put him on the bench - and that's what we're going to do. But now what will we do? And here, my friends, I want to tell you what America can do. I have seen the world, as Cabot Lodge indicated in his introduction. I have visited 55 countries. I have been in the heart of Siberia. I have been in Poland. I have seen in the faces of millions of people on this earth their hopes, and their hopes are like the hopes of the people of America. I realize today - and all Americans must realize - that this election is critical because what the next President does, what the next Vice President does, what we are able to do as a nation, will determine whether our world can realize a dream that it has had from the beginning of civilization and which it has never been possible to realize before. You know what that dream is? Men, philosophers, religious leaders from the beginning of time have spoken of the ideal when all men on this earth could have enough to eat, when all men on this earth could live properly, could be clothed adequately, when they could live in freedom and when the world would be at peace. But that ideal could never have been realized 180 years ago when the American Revolution caught the imagination of this world. It could never have been realized even 25 years ago, possibly not even 10 years ago. But today, as a result of the breakthroughs of our scientists, as a result of the tremendous progress that we have made in productivity, both in our factories and on our farms, we now have it within our grasp to build a world in which men and women will have enough to eat, in which men and women can be clothed properly and housed properly - a world of peace and progress for all. My colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I say to you: We know the dangers we face, and they are certainly dangers that cannot be passed off. We do not tell you that the sailing will be smooth, because we will have rough seas as well as smooth. But we do say this: Backed by a united American people, with faith in God, with faith in our country, with recognition of our ideals, we can and we will lead a crusade to bring freedom to all the world and to keep the peace for the world, with your help. Thank you.
Has Senator Kennedy abandoned his farm plan? I hope so. Just a month ago out in Sioux Falls, S Dak., he unveiled his brave new program for farm prosperity, Complete with "parity income" and "supply management." But now what do we hear from him about his farm program? In Wisconsin the other day, he gave a speech on agriculture but, according to available press accounts, hardly mentioned his own farm plan. I am not surprised. My view on agriculture is that we should look upon our abundance as a blessing and put existing surpluses to constructive use here at home and in the battle for freedom abroad. We will seek, through an imaginative attack on the surplus, to speed the time when farmers will be free to manage their own operations. During this crucial period food prices would not be driven up and payments in kind would be used to support farm income. Our goal is abundance with freedom. Now, in contrast, we have Senator Kennedy's blueprint for planned scarcity about which he has fallen so strangely silent. Could it be that once again his political nerve has failed him? Or have second and third thoughts overtaken him? Could it be that Tie hasn't the courage to discuss a plan that would raise the price of food sharply in the stores:  The price of a quart of milk up 6 cents;  The price of a pound of beef up 15 cents;  The price of a pound of chicken up 22 cents;  The price of a pound of pork up 23 cents;  The price of a dozen eggs up 28 cents? All these things his new program would do, according to career farm and food experts in the Department of Agriculture - the same people who my opponent guaranteed in his Sioux Falls speech could calculate prices under his income parity concept. Could it be that my opponent doesn't have the courage to point out that a million jobs would be lost on the farms of America? According to the same farm experts he previously mentioned, that's what his program would do. Could it be that he would like to forget that his program would throw out of work another million people who now serve farm families and handle their products? Could it be that he doesn't have the political courage to cut the per capita supply of pork and beef below the rationing levels of World War II, and thus establish once again in our time a nationwide network of black markets? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the nerve to put marketing controls on every farm commodity, some 250 of them? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he again has had second thoughts about the fact he would cut cattle marketings 15 percent, cut hog marketings 25 percent? These things his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the political courage to say he would put at least 50 thousand new inspectors on the Federal payroll to keep an eye on every farmer and every farm and every field and every crop? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the nerve to institute, in the words of a man with whom I have not agreed too often - former Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace - a greater degree of control over the American farmer than prevails in many Communist countries? That's what Senator Kennedy's program would do. If Senator Kennedy has not lost heart, if he's determined to go through to the bitter end with this monstrous program, let him defend it not ]ust in South Dakota but in Ohio, New York, and California, all over the Nation. Let him break the silence barrier. If he doesn't think his plan will raise your retail grocery bill 25 percent, as the experts say it will, let him tell you how much he would raise your food costs. If he doesn't think his plan will throw 2 million people out of work, let him tell you just how many people lie does plan to put out on the streets to hunt new jobs. If he doesn't plan to put marketing controls on 250 commodities, let him tell you just how many commodities he would control. If he doesn't plan to set up a new corps of 50,000 or more Federal overseers to watch over everything every farmer does, let him tell you just how many new inspectors his plan would require. If he doesn't propose to cut your meat supply below the World War II rationing level, let him tell you just how much meat he will let you eat every week. And let him outline his program to curb black markets. Would he, for example, shift Chester Bowles, one of his leading foreign policy advisers; Prof. J. K. Galbraith, one of his leading economic advisers, and "Mike" Di Salle, one of his leading political advisers, back to their old OPA-type jobs and make them the bosses of a grand, new peacetime concept of OPA? But if Senator Kennedy has lost his enthusiasm for his plan - and in the circumstances his loss is America's gain - let him do just two things for having proposed this totalitarian farm program in the first place: (A) To America's farmers, let him apologize; (B) To America's housewives from coast to coast, let him express regrets.
THE ROAD I'VE TRAVELED (By Richard Nixon) MY UPHILL FIGHT AGAINST JERRY VOORHIS 1946 - Out of the Navy in January 1946, after wartime Pacific duty, I returned home to Whittier, Calif., and plunged into my first political campaign. Two months before, a citizens' committee from California's 12th Congressional District had approached me about seeking the Republican nomination to oppose veteran Democratic Congressman Jerry Voorhis. Considering the district's normal Democratic majority, some said the committee sought a sacrificial lamb. I was absolutely green in politics, but Pat and I decided to sink $5,000, half of our "fortune," into the uphill fight. Overseas, I had come to recognize two opposing lines of political thought in America. "One, advocated by the New Deal," I told the committee, "is Government control regulating our lives. The other calls for individual freedom and all that initiative can produce. I hold with the latter view." On this principle, still my basic political philosophy, I debated Voorhis and convinced enough voters to win.  I WAS SUSPICIOUS OF ALGER HISS' DENIALS 1948 - This year, the national spotlight focused on the domestic Communist issue when the Un-American Activities Committee heard the charge by Whittaker Chambers against Alger Hiss. As a member, I felt Hiss' denials were suspicious and refused to drop the investigation, despite tremendous pressures, until we had tracked down the whole truth. The upshot was a perjury indictment and conviction and - in my view - a start toward a really effective internal security program against Communist penetration and subversion. I also served on the House Labor Committee which helped draft the Taft-Hartley Act. This act has been amended since then, but it is still basically a sound charter for labor-management relations. I went to Europe with the Herter committee in 1947, saw the vital role the United States could play to bulwark friendly nations against communism. Back home, we fought hard and successfully for the Marshall aid program, which helped build a free, sound Europe.  I DEFEAT HELEN GAHAGAN DOUGLAS 1950 - After two terms in the House - in 1948, I won both Democratic and Republican nominations - I ran for the Senate and defeated Congresswoman Helen Gahagan Douglas, the Democratic nominee, after a hard-hitting campaign by both sides. Party registration in 1950 in California favored the Democrats by about 3 to 2, a margin requiring an intensive statewide campaign on my part. As I have said repeatedly over the years: In a political campaign, while a candidate's personal life is not the public's business, his record is. Only through a vigorous discussion of that record - every speech, every vote and action that might indicate a candidate's conduct in office - can the real issues be put squarely before the people. And that, in a nutshell, has always been my approach in political campaigns.  NEW DUTIES FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT 1952 - It was an unforgettable experience for me to be part of the "great crusade" launched in 1952 under Dwight D. Eisenhower's leadership. And I deeply believe that crusade - to restore honesty, dignity, and integrity to the American Government - has magnificently fulfilled its promises to the American people during the subsequent years of this administration. The American people in 1952, tired of the stalemate in Korea and the failures of the Truman administration, gave their overwhelming support to the Republican goals of peace with honor abroad and prosperity at home through the unleashing of our economy. Pat and I were deeply moved as we stood on the rostrum of the Republican National Convention in Chicago after my nomination. And it's interesting to note that when I went to his hotel after his approval of my nomination, General Eisenhower said that, in his administration, the Vice President's duties and responsibilities would be greatly enlarged.  MY FIRST PRESIDENTIAL MISSION 1953 - During my first year in office, the President sent me to the Far East on a double-barreled mission, the first of many. It was a gesture of friendship on the part of the United States to the people of Asia, and it was a basic factfinding mission as well. In this tremendously important part of the world, which, along with the other newly emerging areas, holds the key to the future struggle of freedom against Communist imperialism, Pat and I took every possible opportunity to get out and mingle with the people themselves, as well as to confer with great leaders of many nations. Showing the ordinary people of Asia our interest in them was every bit as important as the white-tie dinners. So I believed then, and so I believe now.  THE ONLY WAY TO GET THE FEEL OF THE COUNTRY 1954 - In the fall of this year, I went on the stump to campaign for a Republican Congress. My schedule of speaking engagements took me to 31 States, on behalf of candidates for the Senate and House. Cramming something over 200 speeches into less than 2 months was grueling work, but I made it a policy to go into any district or State where my appearance was requested. Since 1952, my campaigning - either for myself or for other party candidate - has taken me roughly 135,000 miles into every part of the country. Still, grueling or not, it's the only way I know to get a real "feel" for the abiding interests and concerns of the people. In these campaigns, I came to know my country.  THE PRESIDENT'S HEART ATTACK - AND THE AFTERMATH 1955 - When I was notified on September 24 that President Eisenhower had suffered a heart attack, I shared with all Americans a deep sense of shock. And as Vice President, I had the special job of helping to keep the business of the Government going forward as smoothly as possible. All of us in the administration were able to work as a team, because that had been the President's operating principle throughout. I for one, was thankful for his insistence that the Vice President undertake assignments of responsibility and thus be ready for any eventuality. While the President was recuperating, I presided over meetings of the Cabinet and the National Security Council, as he had requested me to do on previous occasions when he was away from Washington. At no time did I assume the President's full role, of course - only the President can make the major decisions. But I could help to keep going the day-to-day business of Government.  THEY FOUGHT - AND DIED - FOR FREEDOM  1956 - Late in the year, thousands of Hungarian patriots fled into Austria following the brutal suppression by Soviet troops of their courageous revolt. The President - who had just been reelected over-whelmingly to a second term - asked me to fly to Vienna to observe and report the massive refugee-care program. It was an unforgettable experience to meet these people, who proved that freedom still lived despite many years of Communist oppression.  THE LESSON OF THE CARACAS INCIDENTS 1958 - Since 1953, I've represented the President and the American people on virtually all continents and have had a matchless opportunity to study the world's critical problems at firsthand. The 1958 outbreak of violence in Caracas - Communist inspired and the direct opposite of the warm greetings we normally received - convinced me that we must reaffirm our working partnership with Latin America. We have made great strides recently.  MY "KITCHEN DEBATE" WITH NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV 1959 - My trip deep into the Soviet Union in the summer of 1959 brought me into intimate contact with the Soviet people and their tough-minded leader. As the American people saw during his later visit here, Premier Khrushchev is resourceful, quick, always on the offensive. But above all, he is a formidable adversary because of his blind confidence in the superiority of the Communist system. When we first met in Moscow, he said to me, "Mr. Vice President, you are ahead of us now economically, but we're moving faster than you are. Our system is better than yours, and we're going to pass you by pretty soon." Harping on this theme continually - whether in his Kremlin office, at his country home, or in the model kitchen at the American exhibition - he was the very embodiment of the challenge we face today to compete in every field. When I went on television for an unprecedented hour-long address to the Soviet people, I decided on a direct approach. I said we welcomed fair competition with a Communist society, but would never tolerate being pushed around or dictated to. I emphasized the basic principle that every nation must be free to choose its own system, free from any outside domination. This the Soviet Union often honors by word, but seldom by deed. We face a long struggle.  WE MUST MOVE AHEAD TO MEET AMERICA'S NEEDS 1960 - The greatest honor of my life, and the greatest challenge, came in July, when the Republican Party nominated me for President of the United States. In my acceptance speech, I tried to express my deep belief in that fundamental principle of freedom that is our heritage from the past and, at the same time, our strength for the future. I said it was "time to speak up" for America, to emphasize its great and abiding strengths - not the weaknesses, real or imagined, that seemed to set the dominant theme of the Democratic Convention 2 weeks earlier. No criticism of this Nation, as I told the delegates, can be permitted to obscure the fact that America is the strongest power in the world - militarily, economically, ideologically - and that we have the resources and the stamina and the will to maintain that strength in the years ahead. But even more important, the Republican platform - which is all the stronger in my view because it accommodates the competing views of Gov. Nelson Rockefeller and Senator Barry Goldwater - offers the American people a realistic program for future progress. We conceive of the great record of the Eisenhower administration as a foundation only, from which we must now move ahead to meet the ever-changing needs of a free and growing Nation. And Vice Presidential nominee, Henry Cabot Lodge, a great and eloquent spokesman for America, shares with me the conviction that, in competing with the Communists for the minds and hearts of men, we must wage the battle for freedom with absolute dedication. We must now show the peoples of the world that freedom - not communism - is the real wave of the future. 
Thank you very much, Tom. We certainly want to tell you how delighted we are to be in Marietta and particularly to see this great crowd at this hour in the morning. I am always very reluctant to have our people schedule meetings at this hour because, you know - I'll make an admission - I don't like to get up early. I would prefer to work a little later at night. To see this crowd come out is certainly a heart-warming beginning to our whistlestop tour in Ohio which will take place today and tomorrow. Marietta, in other words, has given us the sendoff we need, and we certainly appreciate it and we thank you for it today. I'm glad to he here on the platform with my fellow candidates on the Republican ticket, Tom Moorehead, our candidate for Congress, who has already introduced me - the others, I understand, have been introduced - and also to be in the home town of Billy O'Neill who is running for the supreme court. With this kind of backing, I certainly feel very much at home in what was, as you know, my father's home State. I was just talking to John Bricker a moment ago, and asked him how far it was my father lived from here. He said about 70 miles. I remember, when I was growing up, he used to speak of this city and the others in this area, and, although I have been here to campaign on a couple of occasions, I knew about it long before I ever came. But, despite all the other appearances we have made, this is one we will remember forever in our minds and hearts, not only because of the hour of the morning, not only because of the tremendous size of the crowd, but also because some of you took the trouble to make this meeting what it is. I was noticing over here the Marietta High School Chorus. I was trying to think of my own experience in high school. I used to play the piano, but I don't mention it any more, as you can well imagine. And I used to play the violin a little, too, in high school and sang in the college glee club until they made me master of ceremonies because my bass wasn't very good. But we're delighted to see this wonderful chorus, and over here the high school debaters - I guess everybody is thinking about debates these days. Out of that group are going to come Congressmen and Senators, I can assure you, and others as well. And then over here is the high school band. Certainly this has been a welcome we will never forget. All of you, of course, are interested in a lot of issues in this campaign. Particularly as we get into the last 2 weeks, the differences between the candidates begin to crystallize. So the people lay down on either side in their minds the points they agree with or disagree with as far as the candidates are concerned. I want to begin my discussion of the issues today by saying first, that on election day, which will be 2 weeks from today, I think you're going to be making what could be the most important decision you will make, not only this year, but in your whole life. I say that because you're not just deciding a contest between two men who want to be President of the United States. You're not just deciding a contest between two political parties. You're deciding who will be the leader of this country and the leader of the whole free world. Not too long ago - perhaps even 50 years ago you could have said this - what happened in Washington, what the President did, for example, had relatively little effect on our daily lives. We were, of course, tremendously interested in who would be President of the United States, and some of the decisions he made did have some effect. But today what the President of the United States will do in these next 4 years can affect the lives and the futures of everybody in this audience. I speak not only of the field of foreign policy to which I will refer in some detail, but I refer also to your everyday life. I look around this square here. I see all of these shops. I also see all of the housewives here who will be doing shopping, trying to meet the family budget. And you should know that as you vote this November 2 weeks from today, you will be deciding what the prices will be for what you buy in those stores - in the grocery store, in the clothing store, in the drugstore. You should know that, as far as your family budget is concerned, you will be deciding whether you want to make it harder to balance or easier to balance. Now, why do I say that? Because we have a direct clash here, a clash between my opponent and myself. He said that the way to progress in this country is through a massive increase in Government spending at the Federal level - a $15 billion increase is what I have estimated it and I don't think he or anybody else, unless they deny parts of their program, can possibly deny that that figure is probably pretty conservative. Now what would that mean? That means that if these huge spending programs, which he advocates, go into effect, it will praise the prices, it will raise the taxes for every family in America. So, you've got to think of that. If you want higher taxes, if you want higher prices, you have a pretty good choice and a pretty good way to get them. No, I say we can have progress and that we will have it, but that the way to get it is not through programs which, in effect, will say, "turn over all these problems to the Federal Government. Let us have your money and we'll spend it for you." The way to progress is for the Federal Government to do what it ought to do and what it needs to do, but not to spend a dollar that can be spent, better by the people themselves at home right here in Marietta, Ohio. That's why I say to you today: think before you vote. Think, because as you vote you are, in effect, making a decision about your budget, about the role of Government; but, more than that, about the future of your family and whether you're going to be able to make ends meet. And on that point there isn't any question. My opponent will spend a lot more of your money. I believe, myself, in the kind of philosophy which has produced progress and which will produce far more than his will. In that connection, let me just say one other thing. You have noticed the stories to the effect that he charged that America has been standing still for these last 7½ years, and we've got to get her going again. Well, let me say this: anybody who says America has been standing still hasn't been traveling around America as I have. I have been in 47 States and there has been more progress in the 7½ years of the Eisenhower administration than in any administration in history, and twice as much as in the Truman administration that we left behind - and we don't want to go back to that. Now in that connection, too, think back a minute. Think back to the first time I visited Marietta. Think back to 1952. Do you remember what the situation was then? Do you remember it was so bad that even the Democratic candidate for President said there was a mess in Washington, "but I can clean it up better than General Eisenhower." The people, of course, didn't believe that but you remember we were in a war in Korea. You remember there was corruption of Government in Washington because of boss rule. You remember also that your prices had gone up 50 percent in that period, so that all the wage increases in the Truman period had been eaten up by higher prices at the stores. All these things happened, and that is exactly what our opponents offer today. Their program isn't new. They talk about new frontiers. But, my friends, if you're going to cross new frontiers, you can't cross them in an old jalopy that was broken down in 1953. It was no good then and no better today in the United States. So, I say, yes, there are new frontiers, new frontiers here in America, new frontiers all over the universe in which we live. But the way to cross those new frontiers is not through weakening Americans, but to remember how we crossed the old frontiers and who did it. Do you remember? Pioneers, with individual spirit, with faith in themselves, not thinking that they were a second-rate, second-class people, but thinking that they were the best in the world, and that's what we are today, and I'm tired of hearing our opponents downgrade the United States and let our enemies abroad have the benefit of it by what they say. For example, just yesterday - I have a note here from Pravda - that's the official Moscow Communist paper - they devoted nearly two columns to quoting a TV statement by Senator Kennedy, and a speech by Adlai Stevenson was also quoted as saying the Communist world looks more dynamic, that we look static. And I just want to tell you something, and I particularly want to say this to these high school debaters over here. In a debate you want to be mighty sure of your facts, because the other fellow is going to know your side as well as he knows his own, if he's any kind of debater - and just remember that rule if you forget anything else about debating. And all I can say is this: I have been in the Soviet Union. I know what they have, and anybody who says that the United States is second, that we're running down and that they're going to catch up with us, just doesn't know what he's talking about. I remember Khrushchev told me, "We re going to catch you in 7 years." My friends, he won't catch us in 70 years, if we remember why we're a great people, if we quit thinking of ourselves as second rate, and if we move forward as great individual Americans as we are, with Government encouraging individual enterprise rather than discouraging it. It's just as simple as that. Whether it's in the field of schools, whether it's in the field of science, whether it's in the field of education, or housing, and the like, as I pointed out in our last TV debate, our opponent has said the United States is second. He tried to say, "Well, I really didn't mean that." But then I've issued a statement this morning quoting exactly what he said at the particular time, and, of course, there it is. You have heard him say it - second in science, second in education, the worst slums, the worst housing in the world. Well, my friends, the record doesn't show that. He knows it, and I'm setting it straight. Now, let's look to the future for just a moment. What can America do? Well, this country has the greatest opportunity for progress you can possibly imagine. We have the resources, and the natural resources, which the world can never equal. All we have to do is develop them. We have programs, programs that I have enunciated during this campaign that will build the schools, that will improve our medical care, particularly for our older people, that will move us ahead in science, for the new breakthroughs of this scientific revolution that will build a better life for all Americans than we've had before. And that is as it should be, because I remember one thing my father always used to say when we were growing up. He never used to talk about the good old days although he liked those days on the farm that he lived on in Vinton county, Ohio, but he said that in America we always want to move forward. We want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves, and that's the way I feel about it. I want to see this country move forward. But, my friends, I am not going to stand for any kind of a program that fools the people, that says the way to move forward is to weaken the United States, to weaken individuals, and to turn everything over to a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington to plan it for them. They're trying it abroad that way, and, believe me, what we want to do is not to turn their way, but to do it our way - and that's exactly what we're talking about. Now the last point that I make is perhaps the most important issue of this campaign. I would say undoubtedly the most important issue. You heard us discuss it in our last TV debate. It's the issue of - "Can this world live in peace? Can America extend freedom without war? Can we have peace without surrender?" And, of course, you have a choice here again, a choice between two men with different experience. In that connection I think it's time for the American people to know what they will be faced with as far as leadership is concerned if they turn away from what we've had and turn to what our opponents offer. Now what do we offer? Well, first, you know what we will do. For 7½ years Cabot Lodge, my colleague, and I have sat in the Security Council, in the Cabinet, of this country. We have participated in the making of the great decisions. We have been there when the President made the decisions on Lebanon, Quemoy, and Matsu. We have visited with him. We know what it means to be there, to make decisions of this magnitude. Also, we both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat across the conference table from him. We know how he acts. I can assure you we won't be fooled by him. We know what peace demands. We know that it isn't an easy way. We know that the easy way of giving him what he would ask for, which would seem to lead to peace because he says, "All I want is just this, and then I'll leave you alone," is the wrong way, that would lead to war or surrender. We know that when he bluffs and tries to blackmail you, you must not give him an inch because if you do he will take a mile or take the whole world. We know these things and that's why we believe that our firmness and our strength is the kind of policy that will work with Mr. Khrushchev. On the other hand, our opponent takes a different line. He has disagreed with the President. For example, he said, as you recall in listening to our debates, that 5 years ago the President made a mistake when he asked for the right to defend the outer islands off Formosa, as well as Formosa, itself. The President got that power and the President proved to be right because there has not been war in that area. And I believe if the President had been denied that power - our opponent would have done it - that there would have been, because that's the same mistake we made with Hitler. It's the same mistake we made which led to the Korean war. And I say we're not going to make it again by surrendering to the Communists a piece of territory and inviting them to ask for more, which leads to war in the long run. And then came the Paris Conference and you remember Mr. Khrushchev said, "Apologize, President Eisenhower, apologize for the U-2 flights," and the President refused. He couldn't apologize. Why? Because he was doing what was necessary to defend the security of the United States. Khrushchev knew it and yet Senator Kennedy said he would have apologized. Suppose Senator Kennedy had been there at Paris. Suppose he had apologized. Khrushchev would have stomped him, and America would have suffered. I say, my friends, today we cannot afford to have in this critical period such inexperienced, naive leadership as he has indicated he would give by these particular decisions that I have mentioned here this morning in Marietta, Ohio. It isn't a question of good intentions. We all want peace. We all want it without surrender of principle or territory. The question is: How do we get it? And, my friends, you learn that. You learn it through dealing with the men who threaten the peace of the world, and that is the point that I particularly want to leave with you. We can have peace. We can have it without surrender, and we will win the struggle for freedom. And I'll tell you why. Not solely because we will have leadership which understands what peace demands, but because America is strong at home, and because we believe in the right things, and I say this particularly. There has been, I think, too much emphasis in recent months on missiles and military strength, upon economic productivity, upon gross national product, and national growth rates. These are all important, of course, and these things we will move forward in. But, my friends, never forget that that's all the Communists offer to the world - military strength, economic strength. They believe in nothing else, and it is because we believe in great ideals that America has always had a tremendous appeal in the world and that we will win this struggle. What are those ideals? We believe that right does make might. We believe that there are the right ways and the wrong ways to engage in our international policies. We came into the world not to enslave the world, but to free the world. We came into this world not certainly to impose our form of government on anybody else, but to provide for everybody the same right that we have to choose the kind of government that they want. Our answer to Mr. Khrushchev, then, is that we don't say that his grandchildren are going to live under the American system. But we say they are going to live under freedom, which is the right to choose any kind of system they want. This is the kind of appeal and the kind of language the world wants to hear. And it's because America stands for more than military might; it's because we recognize that the rights that we have come from God and not just from men, that they can't be taken away by men. These are the things that make America strong. And that's why I say: strengthen these ideals here in America. Strengthen them in the schools, and in the churches, and in the homes of America. If you do that, whoever is the next President of the United States and the next one and the next one, will be able to do what we must do, and that is to extend to all the world the great ideals that have made America the Nation that it is, and the hope of all the world. That is what I ask for the opportunity to do. That is what my colleague, Cabot Lodge, asks for the opportunity to do. We know the threat to these ideals. We believe that we can prevail, and, with your help, we shall win. We shall win without war, and it will be a better world and a better life for all the people of this Nation as well. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Governor Underwood, all the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this great audience here in Parkersburg. I was recalling to Pat, my wife, when we were coming in on the train this morning and then driving over from Marietta, an occasion which many of you may recall, some of you who are older, in 1952. I remember the train came through this area rather late at night, around 6 :30 or 7 o'clock, and we had one of the largest crowds of the campaign right here at Parkersburg. At that time I said they must have a tremendously enthusiastic group of people here to come out then. And then we come here today and see what is really - and I say this advisedly, because I have seen rallies all over America - one of the greatest rallies of this whole campaign, and we thank you for it, right here in Parkersburg, W. Va. I think all of you should know that, in addition to this crowd, immediately in front of us and way down the streets on this side - it completely surrounds the courthouse - are people who can't even see, who are in back of us here. And we want you to know this is one of the most inspiring things that could happen as we start these last 2 weeks of the campaign. We're glad to come to West Virginia to get this kind of reception, and I am particularly happy to be on the platform with my fellow candidates. I was glad again to have a chance to meet Harold Neely, because he will follow in the tradition of Cecil Underwood in giving this State honest, efficient government at the State level. Let's elect him Governor of this State along with the other candidates. All of you, of course, have known of my long association and friendship with Cecil Underwood, and I will only add here to what I said earlier when I visited Charleston, W. Va., that he is one of the men that I have watched through the years in the Republican Party who rises above the average. He is a man who is bigger than certainly the State from which he comes as are all of the great Senators and leaders of this country. He is a man who will be not only a great Senator from West Virginia, but one who will be a great Senator for the whole Nation, and West Virginia needs him. But I want him down there because America needs him - and let's have Cecil Underwood in the Senate of the United States where he belongs. And now I'm going to say something with regard to this campaign. Two weeks from today you will vote. I know that immediately after the West Virginia primary and for a great amount of time after that, the political pundits were all conceding West Virginia to our opposition. They were saying, well, West Virginia is a State that has been run down so much by the two who were campaigning here during the primary that we wouldn't have a chance to carry it. I've been watching the reports since then. I've noticed the crowds that I've had since I've been here. I have received reports today. And I'm going to tell you that West Virginia is going to be one of the surprises because we're going to carry it on November the 8th with your help. And in view of what we've seen here, we're going to carry it because the people of West Virginia know that we can provide the leadership that America needs, that we're going to produce on all those promises the other fellows have been making. All they do is talk, and we act. That's what West Virginia wants, and that's what we're going to produce in the Nation's Capital as well as in the State capital here. In that connection too, let's just keep the record straight. In every area that we've been discussing in which West Virginia as an interest and the Nation has an interest, this administration has a record of which we're proud. This administration, with the assistance of men like Cecil Underwood, can provide that leadership which you want and which you need. I know, for example, as I arrive here that we realize that in this particular area you were not in those that are classified as the so-called depressed areas. There are parts of West Virginia that are concerned on that particular point, but let's get one thing straight. The people who campaigned here in the primary and created the impression around the country that West Virginia was the most backward, depressed State in the Nation just didn't know what they were talking about. I'm here to stand up for West Virginia and not to run her down. If we get the opportunity, we will and can produce in those particular matters in which West Virginia is concerned because we're going to use a rifle on those areas rather than a shotgun. All that our opponents would do would be to create a political issue here, but we're concerned about the people involved, and that's why we can produce the progress that they only talk about.  Now may I turn to an issue that will be more important to everybody in this audience and in this Nation than any other in this campaign. It's the one you heard Senator Kennedy and me discuss in our debate last Friday. It's the one that involves he future of America, the future of the thousands of schoolchildren that I saw all along the highway as we drove over from Marietta and the thousands who are here in this great audience. It is the survival of America. I say it's the most important because, my friends, we all want good jobs; we want good schools; we want good hospitals - and I saw several along the route today. But above everything else, we want to be around to enjoy the good life we have in this country, and that means what we need above everything is a President who has the experience and the judgment and the background to do what President Eisenhower has done - and that is to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world.  Now you have a clear-cut choice here. You have in Cabot Lodge and me two men who for 7½ years have sat with the President in the National Security Council and in the Cabinet. For 7½ years we have participated in the great decisions that have avoided war on the one side and have avoided surrender on the other. You have two men whom you know. You know how we will react, because we have sat with Mr. Khrushchev, both of us. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. He has tried to push us around, and he hasn't gotten away with it. He will never get away with it, and you know that because you know how we can handle ourselves.  Now why do I mention that? Not, my friends, because we want to be belligerent in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else. But because when you're dealing with a dictator, remember that the road to war and the road to surrender is paved with weakness, with inexperience, with a naive attitude that these men are going to react as the leaders of the free world will react. And I say to you that if you look over the record of this administration, if you look over the reason why President Eisenhower got this Nation out of war and has kept it out of others, you will find it has been because he has kept America strong militarily, he has kept her strong economically, but also because he has always recognized that we must be firm, that we must never make a concession without getting one in return - and that is what you have on our side. You have experience. You know what we will do. You know that we do know the men who threaten the peace.  What do you have on the other side? No question about intentions, good intentions. But look at the mistakes they would have made, my friends. Think for a moment. If my opponent had been in President Eisenhower's shoes what would have happened. I'll tell you. In 1955 a great decision had to be made. I was there when the President made it. It was hard. He had to decide whether or not, in order to keep the peace in the Pacific, America would slice off a bit of freedom, two islands, and say, "You can have these because we want the peace so badly that we don't want to get into a war about these." Or he had to say, "No, we're not going to surrender a couple of islands, because if we do, we realize that it won't satisfy you, that it won't bring peace, that it will only encourage you to ask for more." And so the President made that decision. My opponent would have done exactly the opposite, because in the Senate he voted with a small group of well-intentioned Senators who said, "We feel we ought to surrender these two islands to the Communists because by doing so it will avoid getting into a war over them." They were wrong. President Eisenhower was right. And here again we have an indication of what would have happened. Let's go to the summit conference. You remember, in Paris just a few months ago. You remember the occasion when President Eisenhower was there, and Mr. Khrushchev came to him and said, "Apologize for the U-2 flights. Express regret for them or this conference will not go forward." A man who was less strong, a man who was less firm than President Eisenhower might have apologized, and it would have been a terrible mistake, and I'll tell you why. Because if he had, it wouldn't have saved the conference. It would only have encouraged Khrushchev, the dictator, to demand more, to try to blackmail the United States, and so the President refused. And I say all Americans are proud of him that he did refuse and did stand up for the United States and did the right thing. But, my friends, let's see what would have happened if our opponent had been there. We know what would have happened. In Oregon right after that, he criticized the President. He said, "I think the President could have apologized, that he could have expressed regrets." He could have, and if he had the result, my friends, would not have been to serve the cause of peace. It would have served the cause, in my opinion, of leading us down the road which leads inevitably to war or surrender, where dictators are involved. So, here are two instances. And then we have the instance of Cuba, an instance again where the intentions were good, but where, because of lack of knowledge, apparently, or understanding, he made a suggestion which has rocked the capitals of the world. It has dismayed our friends. It has given grist to the mill to those who are our potential enemies around the world, because he suggested that the U.S. Government should support the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba. This sounds so well intentioned, because, after all, we all don't like Castro. But here again we have treaties, treaties which, of course, would have been broken by this government intervention, which, was certainly the effect of his words - at least that's the way everybody interpreted them. And so the President of the United States here again took the right course. He said quarantine this man. Quarantine him economically and politically and that will lead eventually, we believe, to the Cuban people doing what they eventually will do: Assert their right to freedom. And here again a mistake would have been made of tremendous magnitude by my opponent. Three cases I give you. What am I trying to say? I say to you, my friends, there is nothing more important than keeping the peace. There is nothing more important than avoiding surrender. But the way to peace and the way to avoid surrender is not through weakness, not through inexperience. I say we cannot have and we cannot afford to have as President of the United States a man who would have made the mistakes when the chips were down that my opponent would have made. And I think the American people know that, and that's why they're going to vote for our ticket rather than their on November the 8th. Now what will we give you? We certainly don't give you any promise that the road to peace is going to he an easy one. There will be rough seas as well as smooth ones. We have to recognize that with the problems we confront in the world today America has to be strong not only militarily, but we have to be strong in our maturity. We have to be willing, and we have to be able, to accept and deal with the problems that we have around the world without blaming ourselves every time they do something, whether it's in Japan or Caracas or some place else. And may I say in that connection we also - if we're going to win this struggle for peace and freedom - have got to get over an inferiority complex about America. I'm tired of hearing our opponents not only run down West Virginia, but run down the United States of America. I say we've had enough of it, and we've got to stop it. And all this talk about the United States being second in science, second in education, having the worst slums, the most crowded schools: Listen, I have been in other countries. I have been in the Soviet Union, and that's just plain nonsense, and they ought to know it and they ought to travel a little and find out if they don't know it. And may I say in that connection, I was noticing here this fine big red team over here. I know too the great reputation Parkersburg has in its football team. My friends, have you ever seen a team win a game when they thought they weren't going to? You know, there have been upsets. Often the team that wasn't scheduled to win the game has come through to win. But you win a struggle - when you believe in yourself, when you've got faith, when you think you're going to beat the other fellow. And all this talk about the United States being second, that in our economy we are becoming stagnant and theirs is moving ahead - this weakens America at home and it certainly doesn't help us abroad, and by the same token may I say it isn't true. I just want to add this final note. The reason that I am confident about the future of this country is that I have seen the world and I have seen the Soviet Union and I have seen America. Yes, the threat is great, because they're determined, because they want to conquer the world. The threat is great because when they concentrate their tremendous energies on any area, whether it's space or issues or anything else, they're going to make some progress. But, my friends, we will win. And you can have faith in this because we're on the right side. We're on the side of freedom. We're on the side of justice. We believe in the right things, in the ideals that the world wants. Why does this count? I'll tell you why it counts because history tells us. History tells us that the militarists and the materialists through mankind's whole record have always underestimated the power of ideals. And, my friends, what will be decisive is the fact that we Americans do have faith. We have faith in our God. We have faith in our ideals. And we believe as a nation that it is our responsibility to represent these great ideals, to work for them not only here but all over the world. And that's what we're asking in this campaign. I believe that this is the most important election you're going to participate in in your lifetime. I believe it's important because it determines your future. It determines the future of the world. And I ask you, my friends, if you believe that my colleague and I and those running with us can provide the leadership that America and this State needs, then we ask for your support and we ask for it on this basis: We have faith in America, we have faith in our ideals, and we want the opportunity to work for them, to fight for them, to stand up for them in the high court of the world. And if we do that, and if you keep America strong here at home, there isn't any question about the outcome of this struggle. So again, to all of you who have come out and welcomed us, our deep appreciation. We will never forget this welcome, this city of Parkersburg and all of those who came from all over West Virginia to give us this sendoff as we start this day of campaigning in West Virginia and Ohio. And again I say: With your spirit and with your help we will win not only West Virginia, but we will win the Nation on November the 8th. Thank you very much.
Future generations will look upon our time - the middle of the 20th century - as one of the most decisive periods in human history. We are fortunate to live in such a time. Why is it decisive? First because we are in the process of determining - once and for all time - the character of the first global human society. Will it be a society founded in the richness of faith, of morality, of freedom, of human dignity? Or will it be founded in the barren concept that man is only to be a disciplined cipher in a regimented order in a chaotic universe? There is monumental meaning in this outcome for millions of humans yet unborn. We must have the strength and inspiration and wisdom to make it evolve as it should. Another reason this epoch is decisive is because man is now taking his first faltering steps into that vast unknown we call space. We have talked a good bit in this presidential campaign - though still not enough - about the first reason, the climactic struggle between atheistic tyranny and individual freedom with faith. In this statement I want to explore the second, America's venture into space. Why do we strive to reach out into space where, to say the least, things seem inhospitable for humanity - indeed, for any form of life that we now know? Who would want - and why would he want - to spend perhaps a lifetime in the cramped quarters of a spaceship subsisting on algae, existing in a controlled environment where everything - his breath, his body moisture - has to be recycled to sustain life? The question is not easy to answer in terms of positive benefits. To be sure the moon might figuratively be considered the high ground of the immediate military future, where a forward outpost might dominate the earth because of superior observation and easier missile launchings. But as real estate this airless dust-covered natural satellite of earth seems at present to have little growth potential for human beings. The best answer is that we just don't know - that we cannot know as yet why there is reward in exploring space. This has been the story of all exploration in the past, whether scientific or geographic. Columbus, we recall, thought he was discovering a short route to the Indies, but actually he discovered a hemisphere - a new world - the other side of the planet he had known. Many of our great scientific discoveries have come about in the same way - an inquisitive mind searching for something, stumbling instead on an unexpected truth, and he or his successors recognizing it. In one of my many participations in official discussions of our space programs, the expected benefits from exploring space were listed on a blackboard. These included greatly improved knowledge of our earthly weather, better understanding of cosmic radiation, better understanding of the birth and death of stars and planets. A very wise scientist told us: "Gentlemen, you may forget everything I have just said if you will remember one thing. Probably the most important thing we will discover in space is not on this blackboard." It wasn't there simply because the scientists do not know what it will turn out to be, just as Columbus did not know he was going to trip over a hemisphere. We will lead the exploration of space because discovery is one of the tests of the vitality of a people. We can no more leave this task to George - or to Ivan - and still maintain our world leadership than England could have left the new world entirely to Spain and still have become the first power of the world during the two centuries that ushered in the modern era. Make no mistake about it - the entry into space is just as competitive as was the opening of the new world. Senator Kennedy attempts to hitch his political wagon to the Soviet sputnik, charging that the Eisenhower administration is allowing the Soviets to outdistance us in the exploration of space. It is irresponsibility of the worst sort for an American presidential candidate to obscure the truth about America's magnificent achievements in space in an attempt to win votes. Let's look at the record. We entered the space competition some paces behind. We paid a penalty because the Truman administration discounted and ignored implications of the long-range rocket. We were slow because that administration in the years between 1945 and 1950 relied entirely on our lead in nuclear weapons and strategic bombers. Not until President Eisenhower took office in 1953 did the United States begin serious work on the intercontinental ballistic missile. Because those responsible for our security before him did not feel a need for long-range missiles, the United States made no effort to match the post-World War II missiles programs of the Soviets which they in large measure seized as a prize of war from the Germans in the year just preceding the Korean war - the year the Soviets successfully exploded their first A-bomb - the Truman administration eliminated long-range missile development entirely. Among the projects wiped out was one which might have put the first U.S. satellite in orbit by 1952, 5 years before sputnik. The Eisenhower administration has just about closed an inherited space gap. We have been hard at work on the related problem - the so-called missile gap - likewise inherited - and we have achieved great success. With expenditures of more than a billion dollars a year, utilizing the great resourcefulness of the giant industrial complex of America, as well as that of the Federal Government, we have surpassed the Soviet lead in the space competition in all respects but that of rocket thrust - where the failures of the last administration handed the Soviets a several-year lead; and even that lead is soon to be surpassed. To date, 36 space satellites and space probes have been successfully launched. The United States has launched 28 of those 36. Of greater importance than this superiority of sheer numbers is the character and the value of the accomplishments.  In the past year along the United States has put aloft the first meteorological satellite and opened a real breakthrough in the world's understanding and early prediction of the weather. We have demonstrated the feasibility of interplanetary communications. By balloon satellite we have opened revolutionary new methods for international radio and television transmission. Undergirding these more spectacular advances lie the solid advance we have made in fundamental knowledge of the universe in which we live - knowledge such as the discovery of the Van Allen Radiation Belt, revelation of the pear shape of the earth and a multitude of other developments which has at times stretched our new information beyond our capacity to digest. Advances in physics, chemistry, metallurgy, ceramics, electronics, fuels - are among the fundamentals of our future progress.  These are some of the achievements of a space program which we have compressed into an extremely short period of time, as this sort of technological effort must be measured. It is a record in which President Eisenhower's Administration and all Americans can take justifiable pride and yet, our record at this point is only a preparation for the great ventures which are immediately ahead of us.  While the next President of the United States is still in office, the first American astronaut will almost surely complete true space flight.  It is possible that under programs now well underway, that the next President - should the voters grant him his constitutional two terms - will receive at the White house the first American astronauts to return from circumlunar flights around the moon. Programs already underway indicate that the decade of the sixties, for which Americans are now selecting their leadership, may outrank the discovery in the final decade of the 15th century, when Columbus sailed westward into the Atlantic.  What is in the making in our space program?  We are proceeding at top priority in developing space rockets of lifting power in excess of any the Soviets are developing according to information that I deem to be reliable. With our 1½ million-pound thrust Saturn vehicle we will take the lead in chemically powered space rockets.  During the term of office of the next President we will get the first nuclear-fueled engine capable of deep penetration into space.  In the period 1966-67 we will launch and operate a manned, permanent space station, orbiting at somewhere between 300 and 1,000 miles from the earth, to which our astronauts will go and come, and stage flights farther into space.  We will launch, in the period 1966-68, manned circumlunar flights. By the early 1970's we will launch manned spaceships to land on, and return from, the moon.  Of course, we cannot always lead all nations in all steps on the way into space, for each nation will pursue different programs with different emphasis.  But this I pledge: If the responsibility becomes mine on January 21, 1961, America will be second to no one in the long stride into space. This effort, we should all understand, will be expensive. But I believe we should spend every dollar we can constructively and responsibly invest in the effort to quicken the exploration of the great new world - the new world of interplanetary space. The challenge of the unknown is one that no nation as vital and youthful as America can fail to accept. Even if the Soviet Union had not challenged us in this forward thrust into the future, America would confront the choice of meeting or ignoring its responsibility to extend man's horizons of knowledge. In this respect we cannot, and we will not, fail. Moreover, we have no intention of going forward in secrecy and alone, as the Soviets indicate is their intention. Our partner in this endeavor is all the free world.
Thank you very much. Congressman, my good friend, Sam Devine, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this great audience in Columbus, there comes a time in each campaign when the candidate knows that the tide has turned and that it is moving up to victory. I think that one of the greatest thrills of my life is that time in this campaign when I entered Ohio, my father's home State, yesterday, when I went to Cincinnati, Bob Taft's home city, yesterday evening, and when we come now to Columbus, Ohio, the home of John Bricker, the Ohio State Buckeyes, and all this great audience here. All day today we have had some of the greatest campaign crowds in history. We have also had tremendous enthusiasm. As a matter of fact, I must say that certainly nothing could exceed the welcome we have gotten here in Columbus. And my only regret is that my father, who, as you may recall, died in 1956, just before the last election, couldn't be here. Because - I know that Pres Wolfe had this story in the Columbus papers, but I will repeat it - before he came to California, he lived first in Vinton County and then came to Columbus. Those were the days before you had that new-fangled kind of a car without the tracks. He was a motorman on the old Columbus Street Railway, and from here he went to California, married my mother, who, of course, was also a middle westerner - as most Californians were in the beginning - and then that's how I came back to Ohio as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States. Certainly, one of the particular privileges that is mine today is to tell you how proud I am to be on the platform with my fellow candidates on the Republican ticket; with am Devine, who has introduced me; and I'm also glad to have seen his predecessor, John Vorys over here, for the first time in a few months; and with Jim Rhodes, whose office I just used in the State Capitol for a few minutes before we came out here. For all of our splendid candidates, how about a real hand, right now. I want to talk to you today about two issues of tremendous importance. They are issues that I have been discussing throughout this campaign, but particularly as we enter these last, critical 2 weeks. I want to begin by saying this: That the decisions that you will make on November the 8th are decisions that are so important to you individually, so important to America as a nation, that I ask you to make them on the basis of the country first rather than the party, rather than the man, because America today cannot settle for anything less than the best. We've got to have the best leadership that America can produce, and that is what we offer to the American people, we believe, in our program. When I speak of the best leadership, I am not so presumptuous to stand here and tell you that I have all the answers to the problems of America and of the world. I do say this, however, and I say it with pride: my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I for 7½ years have served under one of the greatest Presidents this country has ever had, Dwight D. Eisenhower. And we're proud of the record we've made in these last 7½ years. Oh, I know you've been hearing everything that's wrong with it. But I think the time has come to nail some of those things, and I've been doing it. I'm going to do more of it today right here in Columbus, Ohio. You've been hearing, for example, that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years, you know, and that we've got to get her going again. Well, you know better than that, because you have seen America and you know that, whether it's progress in building schools or hospitals, whether it's progress in creating more factories and more jobs for the American people, we've seen more in this period than in any period in our history. Whether it's progress in the field of civil rights or in any field, in this administration we've moved ahead. I tell you today that I am proud to be standing with my colleague and running on a platform where we will move America ahead in the years to come, move her ahead from this great base which we have already reached. I also want to tell you this: that, as I read some of the speeches, as I read some of the charges that are being made about this administration, about our progress domestically and about our foreign policy, that I, frankly, think that the American people, whether they're Republicans or Democrats, are getting tired of being told they're a second-rate bunch of people in a second-rate country. I think they are tired of reading in the papers, as you do this morning, that all day yesterday all my opponent had to say to the American people was "our prestige is at all alltime low" - and he attacks me because I say it isn't true. Well, I believe in speaking up for America, particularly when what he says is not true, and he knows it, because American prestige is high. Let's think for just a moment about some of these charges that have been made before I turn to prestige, one in particular. He says that I and my party don't care. We don't care for the fact that there are people that are unemployed. We don't care about education in this country. We just want to keep it as it is. We don't care about medical care for the aged. He says, as far as we are concerned, we have no programs, nothing to offer, except standing where we are. And you know what the answer is to that? Well, first, it's the record I have spoken about. But second, I resent that as an individual. Listen, I know what it means. I know what it means to grow up in a family where we had to care whether we had a job or not. I know what it means. I know what it means to have to worry about the family budget. That's why I am not for huge Government spending programs, as he is, that would make it hard for you to balance your family budget. And frankly I am getting tired of somebody running around the country and saying, "Oh, I care for the people because I will spend more of the people's money than my opponent will spend." Well, I ask you - I ask you - after all, it's not Jack's money, but yours, and you know it, and he knows it, too. And I say this: I am proud of the fact that in education, in health, in welfare, in all of these areas we will move America forward, but at the same time that I, as the President of the United States, if I have the opportunity, will see to it, I can assure you, that not one dollar is spent in Washington that I know you can spend better right back here in Columbus, Ohio. I say that somebody who is concerned about how your money is spent, that he care - he cares - and that the other fellow who just goes around buying votes with your money doesn't care for the people. That's the truth of the matter, and the American people know it. But let's go to this whole field of foreign policy, if I could, for a moment. Now, you've been hearing a lot about what's wrong with our foreign policy. You know, the only trouble with all these statements about it is that the American people are pretty smart and they know what's happened. Let's look at the record for a moment. You remember back in 1952 when I opened my campaign in Columbus, Ohio. Many in this field will remember. The first speech I made was here in Columbus. You remember the situation then - a war in Korea, corruption in Washington, D.C., because of boss rule. We found that inflation had eaten up all the earnings of the people in that 7½ years. It was so bad that the Democratic candidate said it was a mess. He was right, and so they defeated him and elected somebody to clean it up, Dwight Eisenhower, and he's done it. Now, that was the situation then. In the field of foreign policy what's happened? Think, my friends. We got this Nation out of war. We've kept it out of other wars. And we do have peace, and we have it without surrender of principle or territory today. I ask you, isn't that the answer to those who say that America has had bad leadership, that our prestige is low, that we've been doing the wrong things? I say it is, and I say the American people, by the millions, Democrat and Republican, are going to say, yes, they like that kind of leadership, and they're not going to take a chance on inexperienced, rash, immature leadership such as our opponent offers the American people in the field of foreign policy. Look at my colleague and me. We know Mr. Khrushchev. I don't say that we're not going to have troubles in the world, because I'll tell you this: Because I do know him, I'm going to tell you that troubles will occur in the world in the years ahead, whoever is President. But, my friends, the question is not whether you have troubles when you have men like that on the loose in the world. The question is how you handle them. Do you handle the situation with determination? Do you handle it with coolness, under great pressure? Do you handle it in the way that you avoid surrender on the one side and war on the other? Or do you shoot from the hip? Do you make the immature, the rash statement that you can't take back if you're President of the United States and that the country is stuck with if you make a mistake? And all that I can say in that respect is this: My colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I know this problem. We have sat across the table from Khrushchev. We known the Communists, and I tell you that I am convinced that we can keep the peace, that we can keep it without surrender, and that we can extend freedom without war, and we ask for your support in giving us that chance in these next 4 years. I think the very best description of my opponent that I have seen was one that I noticed in the New York Post the other day. Here I quote. This was: "Senator Kennedy has a quick mind, but I would say that he might tend to arrive at judgments almost too quickly." You remember what he said about Cuba. If he had said that when he was President of the United States, the trouble that would have been caused simply couldn't be imagined. Do you remember his statement that the President should apologize to Khrushchev? He changed his mind later, apparently, but if he had felt that way in Paris it would have been a disastrous mistake for the United States. "A quick mind, that might tend to arrive at judgments almost too quickly." But I want to tell you who said that. That wasn't John Bricker. That wasn't Thruston Morton. That's Eleanor Roosevelt who said that, just this year, after the convention. Well, she was right, and the American people know she's right, and that's why they're going to remember that on election day. Now, one other point I want to make. Some people have come to me troubled and they have said, "Well, now, Mr. Nixon, we know this. We do have peace. We believe that we're a strong Nation, but we're concerned because we read the charges by Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Stevenson that America is falling behind, that we're beginning to deteriorate." And I quote him again as I quoted him in debate - and, incidentally, I was right and he was wrong, because he had said it and forgotten it apparently, and that's something else he's got to remember. But, be that as it may, when he said we had the worst slums, when he said our education was second and our science was second, all these things do worry the American people unless they think for a moment. It reminds me, incidentally, of a little story written by a very famous Ohio author, James Thurber. You all, I am sure, have read it at one time or another. It was a fantasy, presumably set in Columbus, Ohio, and Mr. Thurber called the story "The Day the Dam Broke," and the story went something like this: A panicky citizen in Columbus, Ohio, one day many years ago, started a rumor, the dam is broken, and quite a few people got terribly excited and they were nervous. They packed up all their clothes and they got into their wagons and their buggies and they went out of town. They were 'way out of town before some sensible person said, "Well, wait, just a minute. You know, we've forgotten. There isn't any dam in Columbus, Ohio." You know, that's about the way this campaign has gone. My opponent's soundings of alarm - America second, America standing still, America's prestige at an alltime low - have got a few people to leave town. But now that the American people have had a chance to think it over, I tell you they're all coming back to town and they're going to vote for us on election day on November 8. So, my last word to you is this: We have troubles in the world, yes. But America is the strongest nation not only in her military strength, and her economic strength, but, above all, my friends, we are strong where it counts, in the things in which we believe - in our faith in God; in our belief in the rights of all men to be free; in our belief that these rights come from God and not just from men, and therefore, cannot be taken away by any man; in our belief in peace, and practicing it, as we also certainly preach it. These are the great ideals that America stands for. And it is these ideals that will win this struggle for peace and freedom. It is these ideals that I ask today for the support of the people of Ohio, and the people of this Nation to work for in the next 4 years - to work for peace, to work for progress; but, above all, to work for the extension of freedom, this wonderful life that we have here, to the people of all the world. Thank you very much.
I was scheduled to speak here for a little longer than usual, for what we call one of our midtown stops. But when I see the umbrellas, when I realize that you're standing there under rather difficult circumstances, I will bring my message to you as quickly as I can, so that certainly we don't have any of our voters catching pneumonia. We need all of you On November the 8th. My friends, there is one issue, one issue that is more important than all the rest in this campaign, and that issue is the future of America. It is the future not only of our children and our grandchildren, but the future of people throughout the world. And I want to say this: that as you vote on November the 8th - and I say this to all of you, whether you're Democrats or Republicans or independents, because this campaign is so important - the decision you will make is so critical, that I say what you should do is not to think of the party first, but of America first, and vote for whatever is best for America. I am proud of my party. I am proud of the candidates who are on this platform with me, but, my friends, as we elect a President in this year 1960, it isn't enough simply to vote as somebody tells you to vote. It isn't enough to vote simply as your grandfathers and your fathers did. I say to you: consider my record; consider my opponent's, and ask yourself this question - which of the candidates for the Presidency can best provide the leadership that will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world? I have discussed that issue, as you know, on several occasions in our debates. I discussed it again last night on national television. There are just two or three points that I want to add today. I don't know whether you have seen your morning papers, but if you have, you will see what I think is the intensification of one of the most irresponsible campaigns that I have ever seen as far as a presidential campaign is concerned, I refer to the comment of my opponent in which he is trying to convince the people of America and at the same time, apparently, trying to convince the people abroad, that American prestige is at an all-time low.  My friends, this is irresponsible because it's wrong, and I say it's wrong today, and he has to retract it in the course of this campaign.  Listen, I'm quoting now not from what papers in the United States say about this campaign. I'm quoting from Pravda. This is what they're saying in Moscow. Listen, two columns devoted day before yesterday to a TV statement by Senator Kennedy and a speech by Adlai Stevenson saying American prestige is at a new low. The Democratic nominees of this campaign and the last were quoted as saying American prestige is low in Africa; is low in Asia; is low in South America, and Stevenson was also quoted as saying the Communist world looks more dynamic, and we look static.  Now, what is the truth? Well, I have been in Russia, I have seen what they have, and anybody who thinks that Mr. Khrushchev is going to catch up with us in 7 or 70 years is just talking through the top of his hat, or his umbrella, whichever you want to say. I have seen this system, and I say that free men can always outproduce those who are driven as slaves, and we will do it in America. We're doing it today, and we will continue to do it. And you ask about prestige. What do our opponents think? Do they think that Mr. Khrushchev gains prestige for the Communists when he takes off his shoe at the United Nations and pounds the table with it?  I say no. I say that President Eisenhower gained prestige for America when with great dignity and great responsibility, he stood for peace, for disarmament, for all the things that Americans believe in.  No, my friends, the real test of prestige, if our prestige was low, I can assure you, would occur in the United Nations, and there what do we find? In every instance where we've had a test vote - and listen to this - in the last 7 years, with the Soviet Union on one side and the United States on the other, we have won; and in the vote on the Congo we won, 70 to nothing. My friends, that's a pretty good score in football. It's a tremendous score in international relations, and I say that it's time that our opponents quit trying to run America down not only at home, but abroad.  It's time to stand up for America. And I would also give to my opponent who, for the first time, is running for the Presidency, a little free advice. Adlai Stevenson tried this same thing in 1956. You heard him speak here. Do you remember what he said? American prestige is at an all-time low. And by a 9 million majority, the American people said "No" to Adlai, and "Yes" to Dwight Eisenhower. And they're going to say "No" again, because the American people are not a second-rate country. We do not have a second-rate education. We do not have a second-rate scientific system. Yes, we have our problems, problems of which all of you are aware. Yes, America must move forward, and I tell you I am going to move her forward. We're going to have progress in education, greater even than we've had in this past administration. We're going to have progress in housing. We're going to move this economy forward because I know we must, in order to stay ahead in the race in which we are engaged. We're going to see that all Americans move forward together that no one is left behind, because we need to be sure that all of our citizens, regardless of their backgrounds, have an equal chance at the starting line. They've got to have a chance at their time at bat, even though we all can't hit home runs. So, I say to you: this is what I stand for. But, my friends, we're not going to move America forward by running America down - and that's what I'm trying to say here to this great audience in Dayton today. Let us see, then, in a nutshell, what your choice is as far as the two candidates for the Presidency on this issue are concerned. Your choice is between two men who know Mr. Khrushchev, two men, Cabot Lodge and myself, who have sat opposite the conference table from him, and between our opponent, Mr. Kennedy, who asks the American people to make him captain of the team when he, himself, says the team is no good. Well, let me say this: first of all, as far as we are concerned, knowing the Communists, these are the things I pledge to you we will do: one, above everything else, my friends, to begin with, we have to keep America the strongest nation in the world. And to the people in this great area of Dayton which has contributed so much to our defense - the home of Orville and Wilbur Wright - let me say that there is no question but that America must move forward militarily, and we will. I want to tell you why we have to do this. I know Mr. Khrushchev, and I know the time must never come when an American President sits at the conference table faced by a man who says, "I am stronger than you are." And so I pledge to you that we will do whatever is necessary to keep America strong militarily. Second, I pledge to you that we will keep this economy growing, as I have indicated, moving forward on all fronts, as it has not moved forward ever in our history. But make no mistake about it, when we talk about America standing still, let's just look around America and we will see that we've made more progress in this administration than we ever made in the Truman administration. We don't want to go back to those policies. The other point I would make is this: if America is to win, we must have a President and others who lead us who know our opponents, who won't be taken in by them and who will not make the mistake of saying one thing and meaning something else. Take my opponent, for example. He says on the Cuban situation that he did not intend to suggest that the American Government should intervene in the internal affairs of Cuba. And yet the words he used, "the U.S. Government should support the anti-Castro forces in Cuba" have been interpreted by his friends among the press, by all the people abroad, by all of the allies of the United States, as meaning exactly that. I say we cannot have as President of this country a man who doesn't know what he's talking about when he says something affecting the security of the United States. Because the words that man speaks as President must be carefully weighed. They are heard all over the world, and in this instance, may I say, we cannot afford these mistakes, because if he had been President - think of that - and had made this mistake, it would have been disastrous for the United States, in my opinion. He might not have the opportunity, as he is now trying to do, apparently, to correct it. And, so I say to you that my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I offer to this country, first the knowledge of who are enemies are. We offer to this country, second, a pledge to keep America strong diplomatically, economically, and militarily. But, my friends, above all else, I want to tell you we offer to America something that every American - Democrat, Republican, and independent - would agree with, something I am sure that the man who is so well known in Dayton, a great candidate on the Democratic ticket, James Cox, would stand for. We offer complete faith in America and in her ideals, Let me tell you why I have that faith. I have seen not only the Soviet Union, I have seen 55 countries abroad, and I have seen the United States, and, my friends, whatever they say here at home, I can tell you that the people of the world respect America. They respect us not because we are militarily strong or economically rich, as we are. Do you know why they respect us? Because we believe in the right things. Because of our faith in God; because of our faith and our belief in the rights of all men; because of our conviction that men's rights to freedom and nations' rights to independence should be extended to all the world. And it is this conviction, my friends, that makes America stand high in the world - and I can tell you that if you give us the opportunity we will speak up for America abroad. We will present to all the world the true picture of America, not that of a nation that is looking only to its own selfish interest, not of a nation that is concerned only about fighting communism, but of a nation that cares, of a people that are concerned about poverty and misery and disease and tyranny any place in the world. That is what America stands for. These are the things I believe in. These are the things that have always made America the hope, the wonder of the world. So, I say to you today again, consider our qualifications. Consider what you want for America. And if you believe that Cabot Lodge and I can speak for America, that we represent your deepest and your innermost thoughts for America, then I say: come and join this crusade, not just for a party ,not just for a couple of men, but a crusade for America and for all of those great ideals which we believe in and for which we've stood throughout our history. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. As Del Latta just pointed out, we have had a little difficulty down the line, but it wasn't all the train. Part of it was the fact the crowds have just been so big we couldn't get here any sooner, but I'm sure you will appreciate that. And I certainly want you to know that the very fact that you would be here and wait so long for us and still be so full of pep and vim and vigor means that we're going to really carry Ohio with your help. I appreciate the sign back there from Defiance. My good friend, Kermit McCann, of course, is the president of Defiance, and I am one of those fortunate people who got a degree from Defiance without having to study for it. And certainly I welcome the opportunity to speak as one who did graduate from a small college in paying tribute to the small colleges of Arnerica for the tremendous contributions they make to our educational system. We need the big universities, but, believe me, we need the small ones, too, and I am delighted to have the people from Defiance here today. Now, on these stops where we have only a few minutes, there are, of course, any number of subjects that I realize you folks would like to hear discussed. I selected two today that I think will be of interest. One, it seems to me from the standpoint of the folks here since is one of the richest farming areas in all of the United States, that you obviously are interested in what kind of a farm program we're going to have, and I want to say, my friends, that there isn't any one issue in which there is a greater gulf and a greater difference between the two candidates for the Presidency than on the farm issue, and I want to say that I welcome the opportunity to discuss it today or any time during the course of this campaign. Now, many of you here are not interested, I am sure, in this issue, but you all ought to be, and I want to tell you this: If my opponent's farm program were enacted into law, first, it wouldn't help the farmer. It wouldn't help him. It would hurt him. It would hurt him because it would have the effect of putting the farmer directly under the control of owing to the Federal Government in Washington and the bureaucrats in Washington the responsibility for them to determine how much he could plant, what he could sell it for, and so on down the line. As a matter of fact, let me tell you what his program would entail. Let's suppose a farmer had a son who also wanted to be a farmer. He couldn't even go into farming unless he inherited a certificate from his father or unless he was able to buy the right to farm from somebody else. Nobody could go out and start farming without getting permission from the Government. That is one thing the opponent's program would do. Let me tell you something else it would do. What would it do to the prices? The prices, of course, as far as farm prices in the stores are concerned, would go up. As far as farm income is concerned, the real help would not come to the farmers, because of the cuts in acreage that would be required by this program. As a matter of fact, this program is so radical and has so many controls in it that even Henry Wallace - and he's certainly no conservative, as you know - even Henry Wallace sajd that this program was rejected by Mr. Roosevelt back in 1935 as being too radical and as it was a program that would require more regimentation of farmers in America than they have in many Communits countries today. I say the farmers of America don't want that kind of program. They want a program in which we can move farm income up, but not through managed scarcity, but through increased abundance for all the American people and all the world, and that's what my program will do. What we have to do is to make far greater use of our surpluses in our programs abroad. We have to increase our markets at home, and at the same time we have to do a job with regard to compensating the farmer, in effect, for what he has done through the years, for putting into production farmlands that wuld not have been put in unless Government policies had, in effect, encouraged him to do so - and certainly the Government owes a responsibility to the farmer, just as it does to a business, once a war is over to indemnify him for that particular reliance upon Government action. This is not the time to go into it in detail, but I can only say this: With my program, it is one that will result in keeping the farmer's income up and in moving it up, but the way we do it is to take the surpluses off the farmer's back, because as you get the surpluses off the farmer's back and off the market, farm prices can then go up and the consumers then can have an economy of abundance rather than scarcity and they will not have a number of Government officials in Washington telling the farmers what to do. This is what you don't want, and here I know the farmers of Ohio, as well as the rest of the country, will say we're going to do it the American way and not the way our opponent would foist upon the American people and the American farmer. Now, the second point that I want to make is one that relates to everybody here, because we can have the best farm program, the best jobs, and the best schools, and colleges and everything we can imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we are not around to enjoy them, and that is why I say to this audience, as I do to everyone to whom I speak, where I have an opportunity around this country, that my major concern, if I have the opportunity to serve this country, will be to develop the programs that will keep the peace, keep it without surrender and that will not just hold the line for freedom, but will extend freedom throughout the word and extend it without war. Let me explain what I mean by this: We have done certainly over these past 7½ years a remarkable job in that respect. Oh, I know we've been criticized. I know that they say that everything is wrong with what the President has been doing. He should have apologized to Khrushchev and he should not have held Quemoy and Matsu. I know, all these things have been wrong, but just let me say this: Under President Eisenhower's leadership we got the Nation out of one war, we've kept it out of others; we have peace today, and we want to continue that kind of leadership in the years ahead. And, my friends, now the crisis, the critical period comes. This will be the most critical period in the Nation's history. Decisions will be made by the next President that will determine whether we have war or peace, and now is the time to have men on the job who know what it's all about and not to put an inexperienced man in the job, because we cannot afford to let him practice with his mistakes on us, on the people of the United States, and on the people of the world. And I would only point out that in instance after instance in this campaign, he has indicated that when the chips were down - on Cuba, for example, he would have made a terrible mistake; on the apology, for example, he would have made a mistake on Quemoy and Matsu. Let me say this: It isn't a question of good intentions. The question is: Do the men who seek your support have the experience, the background, the judgment to handle these great problems? And I just want to say in that connection that I don't say that it's easy, because I know Mr. Khrushchev, and I know that Communist leaders around the world. It's going to be difficult, but it can be done. It can be done if America keeps her strength militarily, economically, and above all, morally and spiritually. It can be done if America also keeps her nerve, because, remember they're going to be testing us all over the world, probing here, there and every place else. We're going to have to have the maturity to take the rough seas with the calm. We're going to have to have the good sense not to blame ourselves for what the Communists do abroad to embarrass us. If we do all these things and if we have the united support of an American people who don't think we're a second-rate country - and, believe me, we aren't, and I resent anybody who says it in any respect - if we have that kind of support, we then will provide the leadership that you want and that America needs. And so with that, again my friends, for waiting so long, for being so patient, we will remember you. We will remember that you came out and welcomed us so generously on this visit to Deschler, and we only hope in the years to come we can be worthy of such devotion as you have shown tonight. And remember this, too, we need Del Latta down there with the biggest majority he's ever had. How about it? Thank you very much.
Has Senator Kennedy abandoned his farm plan? I hope so. Just a month ago out in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., he unveiled his brave new program for farm prosperity, complete with "parity income" and "supply management." But now what do we hear from him about his farm program? In Wisconsin the other day, he gave a speech on agriculture but, according to available press accounts, hardly mentioned his own farm plan. I am not surprised. My view on agriculture is that we should look upon our abundance as a blessing and put existing surpluses to constructive use here at home and in the battle for freedom abroad. We will seek through an imaginative attack on the surplus to speed the time when farmers will be free to manage their own operations. During this crucial period food prices would not be driven up and payments in kind would be used to support farm income. Our goal is abundance with freedom. Now, in contrast we have Senator Kennedy's blueprint for planned scarcity about which he has fallen so strangely silent. Could it be that once again his political nerve has failed him? Or have second and third thoughts overtaken him? Could it be that he hasn't the courage to discuss a plan that would raise the price of food sharply in the stores:  The price of a quart of milk up 6 cents;  The price of a pound of beef up 15 cents;  The price of a pound of chicken up 22 cents;  The price of a pound of pork up 23 cents;  The price of a dozen eggs up 28 cents? All these things his new program would do, according to career farm and food experts in the Department of Agriculture - the same people who my opponent guaranteed in his Sioux Falls speech could calculate prices under his income parity concept. Could it be that my opponent doesn't have the courage to point out that a million jobs would be lost on the farms of America? According to the same farm experts he previously mentioned that's what his program would do. Could it be that he would like to forget that his program would throw out of work another million people who now serve farm families and handle their products? Could it be that he doesn't have the political courage to cut the per capita supply of pork and beef below the rationing levels of World War II, and thus establish once again in our time a nationwide network of black markets? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the nerve to put marketing controls on every farm commodity, some 250 of them? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he again has had second thoughts about the fact he would cut cattle marketings 15 percent, to cut hog marketings 25 percent? These things his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the political courage to say he would put at least 50 thousand new inspectors on the Federal payroll to keep an eye on every farmer and every farm and every field and every crop? That's what his program would do. Could it be that he doesn't have the nerve to institute, in the words of a man who I have found little to agree with - former Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace - a greater degree of control over the American farmer than prevails in many Communist countries? That's what Senator Kennedy's program would do. If Senator Kennedy has not lost heart, if he is determined to go through to the bitter end with this monstrous program, let him defend it not just in South Dakota but in Ohio, New York, and California - all over the Nation. Let him break the silence barrier. If he doesn't think his plan will raise your retail grocery bill 25 percent, as the experts say it will, let him tell you how much he would raise your food costs. If he doesn't think his plan will throw 2 million people out of work, let him tell you just how many people he does plan to put out on the streets to hunt new jobs. If he doesn't plan to put marketing control on 250 commodities, let him tell you just how many commodities he would control. If he doesn't plan to set up a new crop of 50,000 or more Federal overseers to watch over everything every farmer does, let him tell you just how many new inspectors his plan would require. If he doesn't propose to cut your meat supply below the World War II rationing level, let him tell you just how much meat he will let you eat every week. And let him outline his program to curb black markets. Would he, for example, shift Chester Bowles, one of his leading foreign policy advisers, Prof. J. K. Galbraith, one of his leading economic advisers, and Mike Di Salle, one of his leading political advisers, back to their old OPA-type jobs and make them the bosses of a grand, new peacetime concept of OPA? But if Senator Kennedy has lost his enthusiasm for his plan - and in the circumstance his loss is America's gain - let him do just two things for having proposed this totalitarian farm program in the first place:  (a) To America's farmers, let him apologize;  (b) To America's housewives from coast to coast, let him express regrets.
Thank you very, very much. My friends, Bill McCulloch, and our fellow Americans here in Lima, Ohio, to see this great crowd on a day that I know has been rainy, and in which you have been waiting a long time for us to arrive, is indeed certainly a great inspiration for us, and we thank you for coming, but particularly for waiting, as you have. I only wish that our schedule were such that Pat and I could go down into the crowd to meet more of you, to talk to you, because certainly we would enjoy it, and we feel that just to come into the city, as we have, to speak here for a few minutes and then leave is not enough of a visit to this city, but that is all we can spend today, and in that time I want to talk to you, if I may, about some of the issues that we are faced with in this Campaign, and I want to begin by saying a word about your Congressman, who has just introduced me. Bill McCulloch, as you know, has represented you for many years in the Congress of the United States. You know him for what he's done for your district. I want to pay tribute to him in his district for what he's done for America. I don't think that there is any one man in the House of Representatives who has made a greater contribution toward getting through the 1960 bill on civil rights than Bill McCulloch of this district. I know. I sat in the meetings with the President where that bill was considered, and I know the many hours, the devotion that he gave to that work, and to this district I want to express appreciation for sending a man of the statesmanship and of the ability and the character of Bill McCulloch to the Congress of the United States. I think that sometimes there is a tendency for us in this country to think of our National Government pretty much in terms of our own lives, our own cities - in fact, even our own communities and States; but these days it is no longer possible for us to do that. Everything that happens in Washington affects you here. Things that happen far away from Washington, clear around the world, affect us here in this city, in this State, and today I want to speak particularly of the responsibility that the next President of the United States will have to your future, the things that he must do in representing America abroad, things that he must do which will make it possible for our children and our grandchildren to enjoy a better life than we have bad, but, more than that, to enjoy a life of peace and freedom in the years to come, and, my friends, there is nothing that is more important than that. I know you will agree, because we can have everything else in America and if we have leadership which fails to keep the peace, which fails to avoid surrender of our freedom, it won't make any difference. So, I say to you that today I present the case for our ticket first on that ground. I do not say to you that the problems are easy, because I know how difficult they are. I have seen the world. I have seen both sides of the Iron Curtain, and I know the great problems that we will be confronted with Mr. Khrushchev, the men in the Kremlin, next year, the year after, and for many years to come; but, my friends, I can assure you of this: My colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I know the men in the Kremlin. We have dealt with them, and you can be sure that in dealing with them that we will represent the United States in a way that will be designed to avoid falling into the traps that are so easy to fall into when you're dealing with men of this type. Let me explain: We find that over and over again in this campaign instances have been raised where my opponent has divided with the President of the United States. He says the President was wrong in 1955 when the President asked for the right to defend two islands in the Formosa complexion. He thought that that right should not be given and he voted against it. He thought the President was wrong when the President conducted himself, as be did, at the Paris Conference, when he declined to apologize or express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev. He thinks the President is wrong at the present time in his policy toward Cuba where Mr. Kennedy has advised that what the Government should do is to give support to the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba. Now, he's entitled to his opinion, and may I say he's entitled to his mistakes, but we cannot afford a man who will make mistakes like that as President of the United States of America, because, you see, the difficulty is when you're a candidate and you make mistakes, you can correct them, as he has tried to correct his; but once you are President, you will find that then you must, as you confront these great problems, make the judgment on the spot which will avoid that critical mistake that would give to those who are the enemies of freedom the advantage that they want. And, so, I will say to you this: I do not proclaim that Cabot Lodge and I are men who will the perfect kind of leadership. There is no man who can promise that. I do say that we have been through the fire of decision. We know what it means. We have sat with the President for 7½ years, when he has made these critical decisions, and, based on that experience, we pledge to you, that we will keep this Nation strong, that we will be firm in our diplomacy, that we will never be belligerent, but, above all, that we will fight for the cause of peace and freedom throughout the world, because this is the way to avoid war; it is the way to avoid surrender; it's the way for America to live up to its highest ideals every place in the world. Now, what I have just talked about is basic and essential. If we do not have peace, everything else doesn't matter, but there are other things that do matter, and those are, of course, those things which concern our everyday life. As I stand here and I look over this crowd, I think of your homes, each and every one of you. I think of the problems that you have. I can see mothers and fathers saving so that their children will not only be able to have enough to eat, to meet the grocery bills, not only be able to have enough to wear, but also perhaps saving so that their children can have an education, possibly go on to college and make their contribution to the community and to the State and to the Nation. I know what those problems are. My own parents went through them all. I have been through them. I remember my mother used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning to bake pies so that I and my brothers would be able to get an education that my father was never able to have. I know that in this audience are literally hundreds and hundreds of parents who have that same problem, and may I say that, knowing these things, I want to have government in Washington, D.C., which will help the people of America help themselves. I could tell you here: Just leave it to us. Send all your money down to Washington, as my opponent does. Send it down to Washington when we have a problem, and we will take over. We will take over the problems in the field of education. We will take them over in the field of medical care at the Federal level. We will do all these things, and you don't have to worry. My friends, there is only one catch to that: Whose money is he talking about? It's not his. It's yours. So, I say to you: Yes, there are things we can do in Washington and should do, things which will enable young Americans to have an opportunity for a higher education where they ought to have it, things which will enable the families of this country to have a better living and be able to meet their bills without having prices going clear up out of the ceiling; but, my friends, the way to greatness in America is not to take responsibility from people. The way to greatness in America is not simply to rely on what the Federal Government does. The way to greatness in America is to give the people a chance to be great, and it is the American people who will make this country what we want it to be. So, I say to you today: It is true my opponent will spend more money than I will. He'll spend about $15 billion more of your money a year than I will, but you know what that means? It means that your taxes and your prices will have to go up. He will deny it, but he knows that it's true, because if you read his platform, and if he carries it out, this is what will happen - and I say to you, my friends, I know what the family budget is. I know what your problems are, and I say that in government in Washington, D.C., that we should not spend a dollar that we don't have to, as long as you can better spend it here at home in Lima, Ohio, and that is what we should stand for. I want to add finally one thought that occurs to me particularly, because there are so many from the high schools here, and the other schools in this area. Really, what this election is all about is the future of the Nation and the future of our children. This is what we think about when we go to the polls. These are the things I can assure you that a candidate for the Presidency thinks about as he goes through these great cities as I have gone through them. You know people often ask me, "Mr. Nixon, how do you and Pat feel when you see great crowds who cheer you? How do you feel when people ask for your autograph? How do you feel when people rush up to grab your hand, to say good luck, God bless you? How does it make you feel?" And I want to tell you. It makes you feel very humble. It makes you feel that you have the greatest responsibility that any man, that any woman, could have, and I want to say to this crowd today that we're aware of that, and we know that our first responsibility is to you, and we pledge that in everything that we do, in everything we say, if you give us the chance to serve you, we will not let you down. Thank you.
Thank you very much. I want to tell you how very pleased that Pat, my wife, and I are that we could stop here at London. It wasn't on the schedule, but then Clarence Brown, my good friend from Washington, said, "Dick, they announced there might be a stop here," and he said, "I'll bet you there might be several hundred people out." Well, there are several thousand, and we thank you for coming, as you have. And we particularly appreciate the fact that we're not only in this particular area which is Clarence Brown's district, but also, as he indicated, the home county of John Bricker and, as he says, the richest agricultural county in America. Is that right? One other thought: One of the problems people often ask both Pat and me about is: How does running for President or being Vice President affect family life? Well, you do have a few problems because, or, sometimes you'll be listening to television and so forth, you want to tune something in and, you know, the girls may prefer "Maverick," and I don't blame them. Sometimes it's better than some of the speeches I have had to listen to. But, in any event, there is not only that problem, but one of the things we run into, when we go home after being away for several weeks - people say, like you young people when your parents go away, "Have you brought me a present?" Well, we never have any time to shop for one, and this is the first city in Ohio where the people were so thoughtful to give us a present for our two girls. So, we thank you for making it good for us in that respect. And we have it here. Thank you. I just would like to add one other thought. I'm so delighted to see our two high school bands here, and also to see so many people who are from the schools of this particular area. I want you to know that to me the thing that I will remember the most about this campaign are, the people that I have seen at stops like this. You wonder, I suppose, what does a man think about who is running for President. I'll tell you. What you really think about is when you see so many young people, when you see all the voters who have come out to look over the candidate and to listen to him, you realize what a tremendous responsibility the President of this country has. This isn't a job that somebody must look at as something that he wants to satisfy personal ambition. This is not something that you can describe solely in terms of how this man or that man is going to be a great man, as the case might be, but I think that what we have to realize is that the man who is President of this country owes a responsibility to all Americans. He owes a responsibility particularly to keep this country strong and free now so that we can hand it on to our children better than we received it. That is what we want to do. And I want to say for all of the young people here particularly, that when you read in the papers some of the things my opponent has been saying about America being a second-rate country, as far as its science and its education and its prestige is concerned, that that is just nothing but plain nonsense, and you can put it in your hat for that, because I know, because I have been abroad and I have seen what we have in other countries. America is not a perfect country, but America, I can assure you, is a country that no American ever needs to apologize for in any respect, and let's never forget that. Because one of the things we Americans do is that we recognize those areas where we haven't made the progress that we should, and we're determined to move forward in those areas. We're a free people, and we have the right by our election campaigns to make those necessary, give to our leaders the mandates that they require to see that America moves forward the way that we want her to move. So, I just want to say to you in conclusion that, as you vote in this election campaign, you will be making the most important decision perhaps of your life, and I'll tell you why: Because what you decide will determine not only who's going to be President, but who will lead the whole free world, and you've got to think in terms of what man, which of the two men, can handle these problems, handle them in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev and the other leaders of the world in a way that will avoid war on the one side and surrender on the other. I can tell you that it isn't easy. I have sat with the President when he has made these great and sometimes lonely decisions. Should he send troops to Lebanon? He did. He was right. It avoided war. It avoided a Communist conquest. I remember when he made the decision on Quemoy and Matsu, when he decided we would have to have the right to defend the whole area in order to stop communism in that area. He was right, but it was a tough decision, and with the wrong decision there would have been no time to second-guess. I don't say to you that I, if I am elected, can promise perfection in this respect, but I do say this: I know what responsibility means. I've been through it. I also know what America means, not only to us here at home, but what it means to millions abroad, and with your help I can promise you that we will always represent America at its best. We will always present to the people of the world the picture of an American people who are not affected with an inferiority complex by themselves, but people who are confident of their ideals, who have faith in their God, and faith in their country.  With this kind of belief in ideals at home, you can be sure that we will build a world abroad and at home in which our young people can enjoy a better life than we have had, and a life in peace - and this is what we all want, above everything else.  Thank you again, very much.
Thank you very much, Jack Betts, and I say thank you also to this great crowd here in Marion for coming out and even in the rain to give us one of the most enthusiastic welcomes of the whole campaign. That proves the people around here are plenty tough and a little rain isn't going to scare you out of anything. That's for sure. I also am delighted to learn that some of the students came in from Ohio Wesleyan and from Delaware. Is that right? Well, certainly, I remember as we came through Delaware we had a big crowd there. We were unable to stop, but I hope that all of you who are from that area - because the train was moving too fast, we couldn't make the stop that we wanted to and we are glad that some of you were able to get here. I am glad that Dr. Arthur Flemming, the former president of Ohio Wesleyan, is with us and is here on the platform today. Now, we have also here with us in your Congressman a man who it has been my privilege to know and work with, since you have sent him to Washington, and I am delighted to hear that he is going to come back with the biggest majority he's ever had, and that's certainly an indication of what you think of him, and let's give Jackson Betts the big hand that he deserves. I want to say, too, that to see a crowd like this, who will come out in the rain, who will stand here when our train is about a half hour late to welcome us is an indication of how tremendously interested you are in this election campaign, and you're right; you're right, because I'll tell you, as far as this election is concerned, this may be the most important decision that you who are of voting age will be making in your lives. I say important, because everything that the next President of the United States does can affect what happens here in Marion, here in Ohio, and here in the United States. It will affect the future of these young people in front of me. It will affect the young people, their future, all over the world, and it's because I feel so strongly about that future; it's because I want the opportunity to work with you and for you for a better future for America that I am here, and so gratified to see you taking such an interest. Now, with the weather as it is, I will make my points very quickly. I will make them directly and I hope you can remember the two or three things I want to emphasize today. First, the most important qualification of whoever is the next President of the United States is this: Does he have the experience, the judgment, the background to deal with the great problems in the world in such a way that we can keep peace and keep it without surrender - and all the people here recognize that nothing else in the world is going to matter if we're not around to enjoy it. And, so, I say that my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I offer you, first, our background. For 7½ years we have served in the administration with President Eisenhower, and I think the very fact that under his leadership we got America out of one war; we've kept her out of other wars, and we have peace without surrender today that America likes this and we want to continue that kind of leadership in Washington, D.C. I say, too, that as far as our opponent is concerned, those of you who have had the opportunity to hear our debates will notice that in instance after instance he has differed with the President. He would have differed with him on the great decisions that have been made, several of them, in the course of this administration. Now, let me make one thing very clear. There's no question in anybody's mind about everybody in this country being for peace, being against communism. We all share that belief. The question is, Who can handle it? The question, Who has the experience. Who has the background? In that connection, I say in that respect, by the record, by disagreeing with the President, as he has on critical decisions, my opponent has disqualified himself as one who can handle the problems in the future in the way America needs to have them handled, if we are going to keep the peace in the years ahead. Now, of course, it's very easy for people to say, "But, Mr. Nixon, after all, he has changed his mind on some of these things. He agrees now that the President was right on Quemoy and Matsu." I'm not sure that he does, but we'll say, for the sake of argument, that he agrees with him; he agrees that the President now did not make a mistake. Let's say that he would say that - I'm not sure that he does - when he criticized the President with regard to his handling of the Paris Conference; but, my friends, when you're sitting in that official office in the White House, and I have been there when the President has made great decisions, they don't give you a second guess. You've got to be right the first time. If you're wrong, if you shoot from the hip, if you make a rash or impulsive statement such as my opponent has made over and over again in this campaign, it may be the statement that would set off the disaster that we do not want. I do not say, as I stand here before you, that I have all the answers to the world's problems. I don't tell you that anybody who is President of this country can see to it that Mr. Khrushchev and the Communists aren't going to continue to cause trouble, because they will, but I do say this: I know the men in the Kremlin. I know from having worked with President Eisenhower the kind of firm, cool leadership you need in crisis, and I can assure you that if I have the opportunity that I will keep this country strong. I will see to it that we will be firm, without being belligerent, and, above all, I will work to see to it that the true picture of America - our belief in peace; our belief in the rights of all men to be free; our belief in God - that this true picture of America is presented for all the world to see, because, in the final analysis, that is what will win the struggle for the world. The last point that I want to make is one that I know all of you will particularly understand. As I look over a crowd like this, as I realize the inconvenience and the discomfort that was caused to you to have to come here, it makes me know what a tremendous and awesome responsibility it is even to be running for President and even to be thinking of the possibility of being President of this country. I can only tell you that, as I see this crowd, I will never forget this day in Marion. I will remember the people who came here, who stood in the rain and who looked at me, listened to what I have to say, and if you believe, and if your verdict will be, that I am the one to serve you, I want you to know that I will do everything in my power in working for a better America, an America in which we can all move forward together, leaving none behind, an America in which the young people of this country will have greater opportunities than we have even had in our time, and a world in which all men can be free, in which we can live in peace. I will work for this the harder, because I know of the trust that you have in the man who is President of the United States. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. My friend, Paul Schenck, and all of our friends here in Middletown, Ohio: I want to say the wonderful reception you've given us at this hour in the morning is really an inspiration and we thank you for coming out. And the little girl who just presented the beautiful flowers to Pat - her name is Becky - and she's 8 years old. How about a hand for her. I'm rather partial to girls - little girls, I mean - because, as you know, ours are 12 and 14. At least they were that old the last time I saw them. I haven't seen them for a little while. But certainly as we look over this crowd, as we see so many people in it, and particularly as we see so many of our students from all the schools in this particular area - say, how many classes are you getting out of over there? I wondered why you were so enthusiastic. I see now. Now, as you know, on November the 8th, less than 2 weeks from row, you're going to go to the polls and vote. At least on that day, as I said last night on television, I believe this is the most important decision to the voters that you will be making possibly in your lives. I'll tell you why I say that. I say that because at the present time what the President of the United States, what the Congess, does in Washington, D.C., can affect the futures of everybody here, and I want to say at this point, my friends, that the issues in this campaign are bigger than any party. They're as big as America itself, because what is involved is the future not just of Republicans or Democrats, but of all Americans, and, so, I say to you first of all: Let's think of the country first. Let's think of what leadership America needs and let's vote that way on November the 8th, and will you do that? Now, the second point that I want to make is this: I have just been introduced by a man who is your Congressman, who knows what America needs. He is one of my close friends and associates in the House. He is one who has served you for 10 years, and he is the kind of a man who can represent not only this district, but represent a nation in the U.S. Congress. And remember this: When you elect a Congressman or a Senator, let's not think only of just our own little problems, but remember what happens to America is going to affect you. Now, let me put it very bluntly; let's think for a moment, if I may, of those boys over there on that platform. How did that one girl get over there? Now, my friends, think of those boys and those girls. Think of the millions of boys and girls in the United States. Think of the millions of boys and girls all over the world, if you will, and if you think of them, think of their future - and I say to you today that whoever is the next President of the United States, by what he does, by the mistakes he makes or does not make, may determine the future of these people, not only their fortunes, but their lives, and that's why I feel so deeply about this election campaign. I have seen the world. I have been on both sides of the Iron Curtain. I have sat in the Kremlin. I have sat there with Khrushchev, pounding the table, as he did at the United Nations, shaking his fist at me, as you have seen him on television at the United Nations. I know what the problem is. I know, too, my friends, that the greatest responsibility of the next President is to respond to Mr. Khrushchev and the Communists is not by pounding the table, which might heat up the international atmosphere so that we would have a world war, not by answering insult by insult, but, by the same token, that the way to respond to him is to be just as firm for the right as he is for the wrong - and this we must do. I know, my friends, too, and remember this, if you forget everything else that I say, that in dealing with these men, that the greatest mistake you can make - and listen to this carefully - is to give them an idea that you're going to be inconsistent. Let me put it this way: What caused the Korean war? These young people will not even remember it too well, but there are many mothers and others who will remember the Korean war. What caused it? The Korean war was brought about because American foreign policy at that time left uncertainty in the minds of the Communist leaders as to what we would do in response to their aggressive tactics. As a matter of fact, the Secretary of State drew a line, in effect, this side of Korea, indicating that we thought it was outside our defense zone. The result, because they thought then that America would not respond to attack, that America would not stand up for what was right - it invited the very attack that made us go in: and I say to you at this time America cannot afford in the White House a man who jumps from one position to another and who, if he did that as President, would lead to this very miscalculation, in my opinion, which we must avoid in dealing with the Communist leaders. Let's put it another way: How has President Eisenhower been able to keep the peace in these last 7 years? I'll tell you how. I have been there when he has made the great decisions, and the thing that the President has done is that he has always been firm. He has never shot from the hip. He has always made it clear that the United States is not going to surrender principle or territory any place in the world. It's that kind of firm leadership that America needs in the future, and it's that kind of leadership that Cabot Lodge and I, both of us know Mr. Khrushchev; we're going to give you, if you give us the chance on November the 8th. And, so, I say to you here: I see a sign here: "Democrat for Nixon." I say here to you: I say, my friends, again this is not a time to think solely in terms of party labels. This is not a time when the people of America should say "I'm just going to vote as my grandfather did, as my father did. I'm going to vote as the label is." This is not a time when Americans should think only in terms of how somebody else tells you to vote. This is a time to think of the two men who may be President, to look at their backgrounds, to look at their experience and think: Which one do you think should be sitting in the high councils of the world, talking to Khrushchev, talking to Adenauer, talking to De Gaulle, talking to the others? And I submit to you, my friends, you know what we will do. I submit to you that we do have the understanding of this problem which America needs. Now, if I could add one other point: We not only are concerned here about the future of the people here as far as war and peace are concerned, but we want a better life for all of our citizens, a better life for all of these young people, and I say to you that under our leadership we will move America forward; we will move her forward to the greatest progress we've ever had. We will move her forward so that all of our young people in this country can have an even better life than we have enjoyed in the United States. The last point that I want to make is one that I make particularly for those who are students here. I picked up the morning paper this morning and I saw a news report to me that is, frankly, reaching the disgraceful stage as far as American campaigning is concerned. Apparently our opponents, running out of issues, with nothing else to talk about, are now conducting a campaign on this basis: That American prestige has fallen to a new low, an all-time low. As a matter of fact, this isn't a new program. This is what Mr. Stevenson said in 1956. This is what our opponent is saying now. Now, just let me say something. All of you, I know, know something about what happens in sports. This is the area, I know, of Jerry Lucas, the great basketball player, and he sure helped us in those Olympics. Now, when we have a team, we all play on the team and we put the interest of the team first, don't we? Let's suppose you have a team and you're up against a tough opponent and then one who is a member of the team, who wants to be captain, goes out and tells everybody on the other side: "Look, our team's no good. We made this mistake. We made that mistake. We're no good, and you're going to lick us." Do you think that guy ought to be captain? I say: no. I say, my friends, this is a time to speak up for America, not to run America down. And I say that this is a time that all of us can speak up for America with pride, because again, my friends, I have seen the world, and to all of you who have not had the opportunity to travel, believe me, you go to the Soviet Union and come back here and see which country you prefer. You go to any other country and come back to America and, my friends, you will understand why we love this country. Never forget it. Every young person here remembers America has its faults, yes, and we're going to do everything we can to correct them, to move her forward, but America, too, is the greatest country in the world - and let's stand for that, and let's tell the whole world that. This is what certainly we do believe, and this kind of faith is what we need if we're going to build the kind of world and the kind of nation we want. And, so, with that, may I again thank you for coming out, and I want to make one pledge to you: In the years ahead we will remember, my wife and me, these crowds that we have seen, that you have come out in weather that is a little, shall we say, uncertain, that you would come out here and stand here on these railroad tracks and listen to us, as you have, that you would come from your other duties and listen. We will remember that you are the people to whom we owe an obligation. I cannot tell you that I can solve all of your problems. I cannot tell you that life is going to be easy. I cannot tell you that we're not going to have troubles in the world. But I will tell you this: I will always remember that we have a tremendous responsibility to the people of this country, to the Republicans, to the Democrats, to all Americans, a responsibility to keep America strong militarily, to keep her strong economically, but, above all, a responsibility to see that this Nation of ours moves forward, leaving none behind, to see that this Nation of ours leads the whole world, leads the people of all the world to the time when we can live in peace and freedom with all people. And, so, with that again, my appreciation to you - and remember: go to the polls next November the 8th. All of you go. This is the most important decision of your life. And work for our team, if you believe we are the ones, as hard as you ever worked for anything in your life. Thank you very much.
Tonight I want to talk about a question of major significance, both to our survival as a nation and our progress as a society - our atomic policy both as it affects peaceful uses and weapons. We are not a warlike people. We yearn as deeply as any nation to convert our wealth, energy, and science into the pursuit of peaceful process. Unfortunately, for all men, there are others in the world who boldly assert, by word and deed, that force and violence are justified to accomplish their political ambitions. War and threats of war are to them just as worthy tactics of basic policy as words of peace. They have repeatedly used the sword to deprive people of their freedom and compel them to serve the purposes of a tyrannical state. Because of this continuing menace, America must stay powerfully armed and vigilant. But we have hoped, and we continue to hope, that the Communists would fully comprehend that a thermonuclear war can only destroy attacker and defender alike. Thus, 2 years ago, we sat down with the Soviets in Geneva to negotiate on control of nuclear weapons testing. Both sides agreed that control was desirable, but the obstacle was Soviet refusal to accept adequate inspection. The Soviets have remained intent upon keeping their society walled off from the rest of mankind. They have insisted that we simply take their word that they would adhere to any agreed controls. This has been unacceptable to ourselves and our allies as we earnestly seek the way to world peace. Years of the big and little lie, ignored pledges, broken promises, and violated agreements, make obvious the necessity of a foolproof inspection system. Until now, the Soviet atomic negotiators have stalled on implementing Chairman Khrushchev's letters of April 23, 1959, to President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Macmillan, when he stated that:  We are quite able to find a solution to the problem of discontinuing tests * * * and to establish such controls as would guarantee strict observance of the treaty. In an open society like ours, a ban on atom testing is self-policing, in that any activities of this nature are widely reported immediately. The Soviets, by contrast, simply do not permit people - even their own people - to move freely about the country and speak or write what they see. The limited inspection system which they are willing to accept would permit them to cheat and allow the cheating to go undetected. During these 2 years of negotiations, we have not detonated any nuclear devices and the Soviets know that we have not. However, during the same period, the Soviets have fired at least one large underground explosion and several small ones. They state that these have not been nuclear shots - simply high explosives. We have no way of knowing whether this is the fact. Nor will the Soviets permit us - or the United Nations, or neutral nations - to make an inspection. Only a few days ago, the new seismic station at Fort Sill, Okla., recorded a disturbance in the Soviet Union. It might have been an earthquake. Or it might have been a large underground nuclear explosion. We have no way of knowing. The seriousness of this great uncertainty becomes clear when we consider where we are in point of time as it concerns weapons development. Originally, the moratorium on testing was fixed for 1 year. Then, in a carefully calculated risk, the President decided to extend the moratorium, a risk which he accepted for the purpose of going the second mile, and beyond, to reach agreement with the Soviets. Now consider the situation. For 2 years we have not tested our nuclear technology. And the history of weapons development is such that it requires only between 3 and 4 years to complete a new breakthrough. Two years of this time have passed, as the United States has worked earnestly for this positive step toward eliminating the war threat to all humanity. Where has this left us? We have no agreement. There is reason to believe that the Soviets may have used the time to attempt to overtake us. We cannot prolong the risk much longer without seriously jeopardizing the very objective toward which we hoped the Geneva negotiations would point - peace and human survival. Recently, my opponent made a campaign statement on the question of atomic testing, in the form of a reply to an open letter to us both from former Atomic Energy Commissioner Thomas E. Murray. He stated that, "This subject like all other public issues is properly a matter for critical discussion and debate." Then he outlined his course of action. I will deal briefly with Senator Kennedy's proposals because of the fact that one or the other of us is going to have the responsibility for resolving this question bearing on our very survival. I will deal with them because his approach is quite different from the one which I believe this Nation must follow if we are to keep our vital military and technological superiority over the Soviets in the crucial years ahead. My opponent said that he did not believe that underground nuclear weapons tests "should be resumed at this time." He would want, he said, even at this late date, to continue or reopen negotiations with the Soviets with new negotiators and new instruction. Noting specifically that the present negotiators "are not representatives chosen by me," he added that he would "direct vigorous negotiation, in accordance with my personal instructions on policy."  He is saying, in effect, that the negotiations of the past 2 years by the U.S. representatives have not been sufficiently vigorous and that their instructions have not been adequate to the task. He is proposing a course of action which would delay any possible resolution of this vital matter for much too long - far beyond any margin of safety - since he is proposing to handle the matter with new men and new instructions. And he is suggesting nothing more concrete toward resolving the issue than to imply that his "personal instruction" might be more effective than President Eisenhower's have been during the past 2 years.  The delay, and Senator Kennedy's reasons for it, are both unacceptable.  I say to him that it is impossible to imply in truth that these negotiations could have been pursued with greater vigor or sincerity on the part of Ambassador Wadsworth and our career negotiators and our top scientists. I say to him no instruction would have produced agreement to date, except and unless we had been willing to sacrifice the principles of adequate inspection. The only major obstacle to an atomic test agreement has been, and is now, the Soviet refusal to accept adequate inspection. Clearly, then, the only "new policy instructions" through which the United States could remove this obstacle would entail surrender on this point. The security of the United States, and of the entire free world, simply will not permit either such a surrender or the indefinite continuation of the present moratorium entirely without inspection. And I say that we cannot and should not blame ourselves, our policies, our negotiators, their scientific advisers, or their instructions, for the unyielding refusal of the Soviets to make an agreement at Geneva. The time and patience which we have already expended to explore this way out of the disarmament dilemma have been full proof of our own intentions and those of the Soviets. The blame rests squarely on them. We cannot permit further delay. This is exactly what Mr. Khrushchev and his intransigent negotiators are seeking to accomplish. They are trying to buy critical time, critical time designed to arrest our atomic development, both military and peaceful, while they are free to proceed with their own. Another delay of the length indicated in Senator Kennedy's proposals could be decisive in the struggle for peace and freedom. We must resolve the issue now. We must never allow the Soviets, by deceit, to make America second in nuclear technology. This outcome could defeat us without even the direct horror of atomic war. As President Eisenhower already has done for the present administration, I will make the settlement of the atomic test negotiations a question of the highest priority of American policy. We must act now to break this Soviet filibuster against peace and the security of the free nations. To allow this Soviet filibuster against a test agreement to continue would dangerously increase the risk of war, the risk of war in the most frightful form in human history - an annihilating atomic war. It has become one of the grim facts of our times that whatever increases Soviet strength relative to our own thereby increases the risk of war. Hearing Mr. Khrushchev bluster and threaten to launch his rockets from his present position of significant military inferiority leaves us small room for doubt about what he would be tempted to do if he ever gained the overall advantage. The peace of the world - the very survival of the human race - demands that we break this fateful filibuster. We must and will take the necessary steps to maintain the peace. If I am elected, I will on November 9 ask the President to designate Ambassador Lodge to go to Geneva personally to participate in the present negotiations with a view to resolving this question by February 1. There is no conceivable, no honest reason why this cannot be accomplished if the Soviets have any intention of ever coming to an agreement. After 2 years they are still haggling over matters that can only be construed as naked attempts to further obstruct and delay. I would have Mr. Khrushchev know that if Ambassador Lodge and the Soviet negotiator are able to bring an agreement in sight in this 80-day period, I would be prepared to meet with Prime Minister Macmillan and - so important do I hold this question to be - with Mr. Khrushchev to make the final agreement at the summit. But I would have him understand that, if at the end of the 80-day period - by February 1 - there is no progress, the United States will be prepared to detonate atomic devices necessary to advance our peaceful technology. Such devices already are prepared for underground use in such a way as to guarantee no contamination. Further, I would have him understand that the United States is willing to continue negotiations for a nuclear weapons test ban, as long as the Soviet representatives will sit, but not under an uninspected moratorium of indefinite duration. I would have Mr. Khrushchev understand that if an agreement is not signed within a reasonable period after February 1, the United States will have no alternative but to resume underground testing of atomic weapons. I say underground testing because there is no question of resuming tests in the atmosphere, where some still undetermined danger of contamination exists. The United States has abandoned such testing, certainly until more knowledge is available as to its exact consequences. We must not, and will not, continue the moratorium on weapons testing without adequate safeguards of inspection for an extended period of time such as is implicit in Senator Kennedy's position. On the other hand, if before then an agreement can be negotiated, the United States will proceed, in concert with all nations, to realize the enormous potential which nuclear energy holds for the human race. It must, of course, be an integral part of such an atomic agreement that the Nation continue - with proper safeguards - to experiment for peaceful purposes. As things now stand, we face a fateful alternative. We can and must go forward with our atomic technology in one of these two ways: (1) With an agreement guaranteeing that nuclear energy will not further be developed into still greater weapons of annihilations, but for the benefit of humanity; or (2) With no agreement, each nation insuring its own survival and maintaining its technological progress, military and peaceful, as it sees fit. We are on the threshold of developing major peaceful uses of the atom. Large power reactors are coming into being. Next year will witness the sea trials of the Savannah - the world's first atomic merchant ship. By 1965, we will have, from Project Rover, a nuclear-fueled space engine that will be capable of propelling space probes. However, without exploding atomic devices we cannot achieve many peaceful benefits of our nuclear technology. This is particularly true of a new and imaginative peaceful use of the atom which has tremendous potential - the use of its explosive power for great engineering projects which would otherwise not be practical or economical. Our plan to develop peaceful constructive uses of nuclear explosives has been given the names of Project Plowshare, because it is literally an attempt to convert the most destructive weapon in history into a tool for human betterment. Through Project Plowshare, we now have a great opportunity to turn our atomic armory into a tool for peace. From the studies on the very few subsurface shots that were conducted prior to the Geneva talks, we have gained tantalizing glimpses of great new vistas of future achievement. In Project Plowshare, scientists and engineers already know of some things they expect to find and some hints as to what else they may find. Exciting as these factors may be, the other still unknown findings may outshine all the rest.  In numerous private and official discussions with our scientists and our leaders in this exciting new field, I have full reports on both the progress and the promise of these developments. I will discuss them briefly tonight.  First, a word about safety from atomic radiation. I am assured by all scientists familiar with Project Plowshare that the underground projects can go forward without fear of the consequences of radiation. Eventually, with further development and more knowledge, ways can be found to exploit all of the promising areas which the Plowshare researches now suggest. It would be my firm policy that projects of this character would only be undertaken after the most thorough consideration and with the utmost regard for public health and safety.  In small underground explosions, the scientists advise, the fireball is small - only a few feet in diameter - and it transmits its heat through the ground for a radius of 60 to 150 feet. Everything immediately around the fireball is vaporized. A few feet beyond, everything is melted. As the intense heat of the fireball diminishes, all this molten material cools and forms a glasslike shell. A major portion of the radioactivity produced by the explosion is permanently trapped inside the shell.  And in this underground shell and broken rock formations around it - between 100,000 and 100 million tons of broken and crushed rock - is enormous potential to be extracted for man's benefit. First, the scientists believe the heat which is trapped may be trapped for a long enough time to produce steam for the economical generation of electric power. Think of the implications for a moment - the energy unit of an atomic powerplant to be available wherever the engineers want to place it. Think of the vast mineral riches in remote areas of Alaska, Canada, South America, Africa, Asia, which lie untapped because there presently is no way to bring in electricity or any other conventional form of energy to mine and extract the ores. Any of these areas would be vastly benefited and enriched if they sought to avail themselves of such scientific development. Moreover, we have in this country, in our Rocky Mountain States, oil deposits that equal the reserves of the entire Middle East, oil deposits that are denied to us because they are tightly locked in shale rock. At present we know of no economical way to get the oil out of the shale. Plowshare offers a solution. There is another great potential of enormous significance to millions of Americans, particularly in the presently depressed coal-mining regions. For some time the coal industry has searched for cheap and reasonable methods to accomplish coal "gasification," to convert this resource, not presently in great enough demand, into one that is. The Plowshare scientists have been led to believe from results of previous underground tests that an answer may lie in their researches. The versatility of Project Plowshare goes on and on. Of immediate and far-reaching importance to the peoples of all the world is the use of atomic energy in this form for massive engineering projects, the costs of which heretofore have been prohibitive. Plowshare scientists anticipate that with further research and testing, nuclear explosions will make it possible to build harbors, where none now exist, thus accelerating by many times the economic development of such areas as Alaska, and many other areas of the world. They are already drawing plans and designing devices to adapt the "nuclear dynamite" of Plowshare to cut sea level canals between the oceans and other navigable bodies, dredge rivers, literally to lift the face of the earth to the benefit of all mankind. Our determination to proceed with these works of great general benefit to humanity is fully in accord with the great American tradition. I repeat, that with or without a trustworthy agreement with the Soviets in the next few months, we must get on with our work. Significantly, this kind of effort has been a discernible part of the American character and the American purpose from the beginnings of our country. Early in the 19th century the French observer, De Tocqueville, noted this difference between the American character and the Russian: "The American struggles against the obstacles that nature opposes to him," he wrote, "the adversaries of the Russian are men. The conquests of the American are therefore gained by the plowshare; those of the Russian by the sword." We will continue to gain our conquests by the plowshare, in the modern context of the atomic plowshare. At the same time, we will maintain our military superiority so that the Soviet can never again gain new conquests by the sword.  And ultimately, we will realize the vision of the prophet Isaiah for the community of man - and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more."
Mr. Chairman, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this great audience here in the fieldhouse at Toledo, I want you to know that this is the end of a day of campaigning in Ohio, but it isn't only that. I think you should also know that I have done a lot of campaigning in my relatively brief life, but of all the days I have campaigned - and there have been many great days - in terms of the size of the crowds, the number of people, the enthusiasm of the people, this has been the greatest day of campaigning in my life - and I thank you for it. I say that, and I say it also indicates that something very significant is happening as we enter the homestretch of this campaign. I am so glad to see so many students here who may be thinking of a political career. To those who may be students of politics and may be thinking of that kind of career, I can assure you that there comes a time in a campaign when the chips are down, when the people begin to make up their minds. And that time usually comes sometime in the last 3 weeks before election. And I have sensed that since we began to travel by train through Pennsylvania and Ohio, a great tide has been running in favor of our ticket. I want to tell you why I think it's happening. I think it's happening because the American people - I say the American people, not just Republicans, but the Democrats, the Independents, the Republicans alike - have now finally caught up with the campaign of our opponent, and they don't like it, and they like ours, and they're going to support us on November the 8th. Now let me make one thing very clear. It is the responsibility of whoever is the opposition candidate in a campaign to indicate those areas where he believes an administration has failed to do its job, because that's the way we build a greater country here - by self-criticism in elections and out of elections as well. But it is also the responsibility of whoever is the candidate for the Presidency, particularly, where he does engage in such criticisms, for him to be accurate, for him to be sure in his criticisms that he states the facts as they are and does not misstate them. That is particularly necessary today because we are engaged in a great struggle, a struggle for the survival of everything we believe in and everything we stand for, a struggle in which it is important that America do the very best that it can and that all Americans do their best for America so that America can do its best for the world. And in this kind of struggle we have got to be careful of what we say, to be sure that we're accurate, so that we do not repeat those things that are untrue and those things that might downgrade America not only at home, but abroad. My opponent has made the mistake in this campaign, in my opinion, particularly the last 2 or 3 weeks, of emphasizing over and over again not only those things that he believes are wrong with America, but restating things that are inaccurate. I am referring to several of them tonight, and I want to talk on those particular points before I go on to the very great issues with which you are concerned. It has been said that America is second in education. It has been said that America is second in science. It has been said that we have the worst slums. It has been said that we have the most crowded schools. It has been said that 17 million Americans go to bed hungry every night. It has been said that our prestige has reached an alltime low. These things have been said. They have been repeated not only here but they have been repeated abroad. They have been repeated abroad by those who are not friends of America. By those who want to believe these things, who know they are not true, but who delight in hearing them said in an American political campaign Every one of these things that I have just pointed out is not true.  Let me just point out what the truth is about America today, because when we mention the things that are wrong, let's not forget there are a lot of things right about the United States of America - and let's tell the world about them.  Let's start with education. I've been to the Soviet Union. I've seen their schools. I know something about what they have and what they claim to have. America today offers to its young people - and to more of them - better education than any young people in the world can get. It's the best education in the world. It isn't perfect and there are some things that ought to be done about it, some things that Arthur Flemming from Ohio and I have worked together on - and I'm going to talk about some of them tonight. But it's the best education in the world - and I will not have anybody run down American education and say it's second best, because it isn't.  Now let's turn to this charge that 17 million Americans go to bed hungry every night. There are people in America who do not have as much to eat as they would like to have or as they should have. There are people in America who are hungry. But I have been around the world. I have been to 55 countries. I know what the situation is in the world, and let's set the record straight. We in America can be proud of the fact, as I told Mr. Khrushchev at the American Exhibition that in this country we have come closest of all the civilizations in history to reaching what he says is his ideal of prosperity for all in a classless society. Americans are better fed, better housed, better clothed than any people in the world - and I will not have anybody say that is not the case.  Now I want to talk about science. I've just heard about the magnificent new science building you have at the University of Toledo and I only wish that I could see it. I was never particularly good at science. That's the reason, I suppose, I became a lawyer instead. But whatever the reason, I just want to say this: that I know something about it, and if you talk to any scientists as I have talked to great numbers of them in the past few years, you will find that new discoveries in science are not something that are indigenous to our people. We will find, for example, that when we consider the atom and the breakthrough that was made there, that Italians contributed to it and Germans contributed to it and Americans and people all over the world. You will find in this field America will not always be the first to break through in science. But here again, just because in one area or another we find a Soviet scientist may get there first with something, this doesn't mean that American science has gone to pot. This doesn't mean that America in the field of science is second. Today, when we consider the number of Nobel Prize winners, when we consider science in all of its broadest aspects, when we consider, for example, in medicine and in all the other areas which benefit mankind, we're not only first in the world, we're way ahead. And we are going to stay ahead unless we copy the Soviet Union. Now I want to say a word about our economy. We hear a great deal about the competition that we're in with the Soviet Union, and I say this particularly because there are so many students here of government, as indicated by your interest. I want to say that with regard to the competition that we're in, it is a deadly one. I remember Mr. Khrushchev standing there with me at the American Exhibition, shaking his fist in my face and he said: "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now economically. But you know something? We're moving faster than you are." He said, "We're going to catch up with you in about 7 years and when we go by I'm going to wave, and then I'm going to say, 'Come along; follow us; do as we do or you're going to fall hopelessly behind.'" Harold Buschenstein was there with me. He also heard him say it. But he also went with me around the Soviet Union, and he would tell you what I am going to tell you - that Khrushchev is not going to catch us in 7 or 70 years if we remain true to the principles that have made America the most productive nation in the world. Yes, they are moving forward in one area or another, but we must remember they have a very primitive economy. You can't compare their rate of growth with ours percentagewise and say that because their percentage is greater than ours, that that means they have a better system. This proves nothing at all. It only proves they are in the primitive stage of development. Of course, when they are building their railroads and their steel mills and all their industrial that we already have, that growth percentagewise is inevitable. But let us make one thing very clear in this respect: when we consider the absolute gap, what America has done compared with them, it is the same now as it was 20 years ago. We're still over two times as strong as they are economically. Am I suggesting that this is enough? Not at all, because I know what a race is. I know how determined they are. I also believe that free men can defeat slaves if both work. But let me say this: America can't rest on her laurels, and that's why in all of these fields we have programs, programs that will move America forward, but programs that will move her forward in the way that we want to go forward and not in a way that would destroy the very values that we have lived for in this country and died for through the years. Now, if I could turn for just a moment to the difference in approach that we have here. The difference is a very simple one. I think it can be stated in what we think of individuals and their abilities and what we think of government and its responsibilities. I, frankly, believe in people. As I look at the American people and the American history and the American story, it's the most exciting story in the history of mankind. And you know why it's exciting? Because we've always conquered new frontiers. After all, "new frontiers" is not a new phrase coined out of this year's campaign. We have always conquered new frontiers. But do you know how we did it? We didn't do it by saying individuals can't do this; we're very weak, and we don't know how to handle our problems. So we'll have a great, big government bureaucracy do it. The way we did it was through a pioneer spirit in which individuals were given the responsibility, they were given a chance, and when they had a chance they went out and did the job - and that's what I want to do for America and individuals today. My friends, the easy solution to every problem is to throw up your hands and say: "The individual simply can't do this. The States can't do it; the local government can't do it. We've got to have the Federal Government step in and take over." That's my opponent's answer to everything. I guess it's the one that comes logically to him. If there's any problem, spend more money. Well, I've never looked at things that way - I've never been able to afford to. I don't look at them that way and do them that way, and I particularly don't look at them that way and do them that way when I realize I am spending more money. It's not mine, but yours you're spending. It's not his either. And so, in every field, let's make one thing clear: in education, in the scientific breakthroughs which we are supporting; in the field of health, to which I have referred; in the field of economic development, you will find that we have programs, programs, that will really move America forward. Why? Because we tap all the energies of this great Nation. We don't say the individuals can't do this or that. We say we've got to get everything we can out of the individual, everything we can out of local and State government, where it's responsible, and that the Federal Government then leads, directs, coordinates and supplements, but does not supplant what the others do. That's the secret to progress. That is really the philosophy of my program. And now, if I could spell it out in two or three directions. First, let's take this problem of medical care for the aged. It's one that is very close to my heart. It's one that all of us who have had parents who have had illnesses in their later years, know what a terrible problem it can be to have a great illness and then not to have the funds to take care of it. So, we must do something here, because you can't say, "Well, we'll wait for the time when all of these people can be able to have health insurance" - as eventually that time will come - " on a private basis," because that time will be too late. So, there must be a Government program. The question is, what kind of program? Now, here we see the difference in approach. My opponent says, "Well, private insurance hasn't done the job up to this point. So, we won't have it do its part of the job. The States haven't done a good job. So, we'll leave them out. We'll just turn the whole thing over to the Federal Government." And the way he does it is that he forces everybody who is on social security to contribute to such a program, raises their social security taxes to pay for it, whether they want it or not or whether they need it or not, but he leaves out 3 million people over 65 years of age who don't have social security, and they are the ones, in most instances, who need this protection most. They have no coverage at all. Now, what is our answer? Our answer is this: We believe the Federal Government has a responsibility. But we believe that the best way to meet this responsibility traditionally is by the Federal Government working with the States so we've got this program as close to the people as possible, with State and local control. That's point one. Second, we also believe that Americans should have a choice. We believe that as far as private health insurance is concerned, if an individual wants health insurance and he prefers private health insurance, he ought to be able to get that. And, so, overall, what have we developed? We have developed a program - and get this - in which every individual over the age of 65 years will be able to get health insurance, private or Government, by his own choice, if he wants it; where every individual who wants to have insurance of this type is encouraged to get it. But here is the main point: No American is forced to have health insurance against his will. And this we believe is the American way to meet this problem. In other words, we have here, you see, a program which covers all of our older citizens, including the 3 million not covered by our opponent's, which forces nobody into the program who doesn't want it, and yet which provides more benefits, and a greater choice of benefits than does our opponent. And I'm getting tired of having him go around the country and say that we, my party and I, and my running mate, are against medical care for the aged, when it is he who has an inadequate program. We're for it, and he's against it, if we really want to lay it on the line.  My friends, I could go on, but I think I have outlined the difference in our domestic philosophy. In a nutshell, it's this: America will move. We will move forward economically, and we must, but the way to move is for Government, through its tax policies, its credit policies, and all its other policies, to encourage inventive and creative genius of 180 million free Americans. That's the way to go, and that's the way we're going to go, if we're given the opportunity. And I say, my friends, that my opponent, on the other hand, offers a program which is not new. He goes back to policies that we left in 1953, policies that didn't work then, policies that produced only one-half the growth in the Truman years that we have had in the 7½ Eisenhower years, policies that resulted in tremendous inflation, that ate up every bit of the wage increases in those years, policies which led also to what we call the mess in Washington. Well, I think the American people have had enough of those policies now and they don't want a retread today, and it's just as simple as that. Now, I want to turn to the major problem that should concern you young people here, as well as your elders, and that is: Are we going to be around to enjoy the solutions for these problems that we have been talking about in this campaign? My friends, nothing is more important, as I said on television last night, than that the next President of the United States have the background, the experience and the judgment to do what President Eisenhower has been able to do, and for which the American people will be forever grateful to him, and that is: To keep the peace, keep it without surrender - and that's what we want to do and what we will do if we are given the chance. Now, this is not a question of who is for peace and who is against it. We're all for it. It isn't a question of who is for communism and who is against it. We're all against it. The question is: Who has the experience; who has the judgment; who will avoid the mistakes that must be avoided if we are to avoid war on the one side and surrender on the other?  And, as I pointed out in my remarks last night, we have seen three instances, glaring instances: First, in the Formosa Strait approach: second, on the U-2 flights and in the insistence of Mr. Khrushchev that President Eisenhower apologize; and, third, on the Cuban problem, where my opponent has indicated that, when faced with a great decision of this type, he would have made a mistake, made if with the best of intentions, but good intentions don't matter, made it because of inexperience, made it and then tried to correct it. But, my friends, if he had been President of the United States and if he is in that position, you may not have the chance to have a second guess. Once you make the decision, that may be the last time that decision can be made, the decision between peace and war or surrender or freedom, as the case might be. And I simply want to say this: At home my opponent's programs would add approximately $15 billion a year over what mine would cost to our Federal budget. We see this inexperience, this mistake after mistake, that he has exemplified in this campaign, and I will sum it up in this way: I do not think that Americans in this critical year, 1960, can afford my opponent's inexperience abroad or his extravagance at home - and that's why they're going to vote for us on November 8. And now, how does America move? How do we move in these critical years to keep the peace? How do we move to extend freedom? It is to that point particularly that I wish to devote my closing remarks. My friends, above everything else, we must remember that America has a mission in the world tonight. It's a great mission. It's the mission which we came into this world to carry out 180 years ago, and it's the mission which now we have the responsibility and the world power to finally culminate. And may I say in that connection that, as we consider this mission, it must be considered by Americans with the greatest devotion, with the greatest dedication that his people of ours has ever had. Let me explain it. The easy thing in talking to the American people in these critical times is to say, all we have to do is be strong so that the Communists will not attack us. All we have to do is be strong so that they will not start a war and we can keep the peace. All we have to do is defend our own freedom. We do not have to worry about other peoples around the world. My friends, if we take that position, it will save us for a while, but I say to you: Communism, with all of its evil and with all of its faults, attempts at the present time to be on the march. They offer to the peoples of the world a change. Oh, it's a change for the wrong, and it would be enough as far as these people were concerned, certainly, if simply communism were defeated, because communism would be worse than what they presently have. But, my friends, I have been to Asia, I have been to Africa, I have been to Latin America, I have been to these other countries, and I can assure you - I can assure you - as I have seen these countries that as you look there you will find that, as these particular nations and these peoples look to America and to the Communist world, they do not want simply to be pawns in this struggle. They want a better life, and they're entitled to it. They want freedom, and they want it on both sides of the Iron Curtain. So, I say to you tonight that we Americans will be worthy of our destiny. I pledge to you that Cabot Lodge and I will keep America strong militarily, that we will keep her strong economically, but above all, I pledge to you that we will not stop there. We will lead this Nation, if you give us the opportunity, in the paths of peace and in paths of freedom. We will see to it that the people of Poland, for example - which Pat and I saw a year ago, a quarter of a million of them shouting "Long live America," that they will still have hope as a result of what we stand for. We will see to it that the people of Asia and Africa will look to America and say, 'This is the way we want to turn, not the Communist way." We will see to it that America has a concern, a concern for people abroad, not simply because we are attempting to fight communism or are afraid of communism, but because we would care even if there were not communism in the world. This is what we must do if we are to win this struggle. This is what we will do and I say to you that this is a crusade worth working for, worth fighting for. If you believe that it is, will you go out and work and fight for us in the election on November the 8th? Thank you.
Thank you very much. May I say, first of all, we want to express our appreciation to all of you who came, but all of you, too, who have made this meeting the wonderful and colorful and tremendous success that it is, and I just got a list here of the high school bands that are here - the Ann Arbor High School band, Manchester, Ypsilanti, Willow Run. I am particularly privileged to have the opportunity to speak here at Ann Arbor again. I have spoken here on two previous occasions, in 1952 and 1956, but I will only say with regard to the crowd today as compared with the crowd then, that this is three times as big as those two put together, and we thank you for making it so. And just to show you how things go in this election campaign, the beautiful young lady who presented the roses to Pat was Sue Kennedy. You will have to pardon my hoarseness this morning, but in riding in an open car in the rain yesterday, I seem to have picked up a little cold, but if you will bear with me, I do appreciate the opportunity to discuss on this occasion what I think is the most important decisions that you who are of voting age will make during your lives. I know you often hear that said. Those of us who are running for public office, for us people, think, well, it's important for that fellow, but I'm not so sure about us, and I think people too sometimes think of Washington being very, very far away, after you will elect a President and a Vice President, a Senator and a Congressman, and they get down there and argue about things and now and then make the headlines, but as far away from Ann Arbor and the problems of Michigan, and the things you have to do and the problems you meet in your everyday lives. But today, I'm sure I do not need to tell this audience in this great university community that things have changed. I am sure I do not need to tell you that, as we enter this critical period of the sixties, everything we do in Washington, everything we do, will not only affect Washington, will not only affect America in the general sense, but it will affect every family in this country.  I could spell it out in great detail, but let me just point it up with a few examples. First of all, I think it's vitally important for us to bear in mind that when we talk about our government in Washington, or our government here in the State of Michigan that the decisions that are made there not only affect what we call the State budget and the Federal budget, but they can't help but affect the family budget - and, when you vote, for example, for Paul Bagwell, as I hope you will - and Michigan certainly deserves a good Governor. When you vote for us at the national level, for George Meader, your Congressman, and we certainly hope you vote for him, for Al Bentley as U.S. Senator, for your candidates for President and Vice President - when you vote for them, it cannot help but affect you, because what, for example, is done in the State of Michigan - you have seen what has happened. When government is irresponsible in Michigan, when it adopts spending policies, for example, which drive business away from the State rather than attracting it to it, as it should, with all the resources, human and natural, that you have here, then it's time for a change, and it's time to get a good Governor in the form of Paul Bagwell.  Now, at the national level, you have a pretty good choice, and a very definite choice. There's one thing in which there's no question, and that is, as far as the spending programs of my opponent are concerned and mine, they differ in this respect: He will spend a great deal more money - about $15 billion a year more. Now, at first blush, of course, people will say, "Well, after all, doesn't that make it better, doesn't that mean he's more for what we want?" And the answer to that: Whose money is he spending? Is it his or yours?  What I'm really trying to say is this: That what we must have in this country is progress. What we must have in this country is progress. We must move ahead in education. We must move ahead in all areas, but, my friends, the way to move ahead is not through turning over everything to the Federal Government in Washington. The way to progress is to bring the best out of 180 million individual Americans, as well as your State and local government - and that's our program.  And I say to you that those of us who do think, who do think, before we spend, who do say before we approve a program in Washington, are we getting our money's worth for it; can we do this job better at the local level than at the Federal level; could this money be better spent by the people back in Michigan than in Washington. I say we are the ones who are thinking of the people and our opponents are not thinking of the people, and let the record be straight on that point.  Now, let me turn now to what is perhaps, without question, the greatest issue of our time. I say the greatest issue advisedly and particularly since we are meeting in this great university community, a university community which has contributed so much to government in Washington. I know with my good staff that I have - I know what it has contributed there - government which has also contributed to the cause of peace and understanding throughout the world. I know of the travels of the president of your university, for example, abroad and the recommendations he has made for more exchange, recommendations which I have always supported. But, my friends, basically, in the field of foreign policy the American people have a choice that is one that is again clear cut. It's between two teams, between our team and theirs. Now, naturally, I'm prejudiced. I am prejudiced because I have had the opportunity to work with the President of the United States and with Cabot Lodge over the last 7½ years. And, with regard to my opponent, I will say what I have said every place in this country: That there is no man, in my opinion, who has done a better job fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than Henry Cabot Lodge as our Ambassador to the United Nations. Also, may I say in connection with that that I am proud that on the great issue of civil rights, which no longer can be thought of as a local American issue, because it affects our prestige throughout the world, that my colleague and I are proud to stand together and we speak with one voice and not two voices, as do our opponents. I say this because, my friends, when we talk about prestige in Africa, when we talk about prestige in Asia, when we talk about what's going to happen in the Middle East - I have been there. I have seen these countries, and 90 percent of the peoples of these countries are not white, and it is tremendously difficult for one who represents the United States to preach, as we do, and as we must stand for, for equality of opportunity abroad and then to have Mr. Khrushchev come here and to point the finger to us and say, you practice prejudice at home. And, so, if I could leave one message at this point with all of the students here: Whatever you do, some of you will enter public life, I hope, but whatever you do, as you spread into the communities throughout this Nation, proclaim the ideals you have in your colleges and in your high schools. See to it that Americans live up to the American ideal of equality of opportunity, because this is something that has happened by laws in Washington. It's something that is handled by what people feel, and they believe in their own hearts and what they practice in their own communities. Now, if I could go on to this whole field of foreign policy, first of all, my colleague and I have not only served with the President. We also have had the opportunity of meeting and knowing Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. We, too, know we believe - something about how he operates, and I think I can say that we're not going to be fooled by him, because we have had the practice in dealing with him in the past. Now, I do not say to you that this problem is easy. I will say to you on the other hand that there has never been a problem that has confronted the United States and that has confronted freemen, which is more serious, more difficult, than the challenge presented by the international Communist movement. Why? Because they are bent on conquering the world. Why? Because they are driving approximately a billion people, driving them unmercifully to overtake us economically, militarily, and otherwise. But, my friends, we will win, and we will win provided we don't get a second-class psychology in the United States about what we believe in this country and what we stand for. And in that connection, let's just set the record straight. My opponent has - and again I quote him, and I'm going to quote him without notes, because I know what he said. He has referred to the fact that in education in America, education in America has become second, that science in America is second. He has said that our economy is going to become second, that we're drifting away as far as our prestige. He has also indicated that as far as the U.S. position generally in the world is concerned, that we've been standing still, and that our opponents have been moving ahead. It's time to set the record straight, and I set it straight today. My friends, there are things wrong with this country. We've got to move our education ahead. We've got to see to it that no young American who has the ability to have a college education is denied that opportunity because of lack of finances, and we have a program that will do it. We've got to see to it that we move ahead in science, and we've a program for breakthroughs that will move ahead imaginatively in this field. We have to move ahead in atomic energy, particularly in its peaceful uses. I announced a program for that last night. In all of these areas, we must move ahead, but let's see where we are now and let's get the truth. Economically, we're twice as productive as the Soviet Union, and we're going to stay that way if we remain true to our principles. Education: Now, look, I have seen universities in the Soviet Union, and I have seen them here. Scientifically; I have seen their scientific institutes abroad, and I have seen them here. We are ahead overall in science; we're ahead overall in education, and we'll stay ahead if we don't ape their atheistic scientific materialism in the United States. Remember, our scientists are trained not just to be technicians, as are theirs. They are trained to be citizens of the world. They are trained in the humanities. They have beliefs other than in simply godless materialism, and let's be proud of it, and recognize that that's one of the reasons we have, because we realize all the opportunities of men and all their initiative, why we will stay ahead in this critical area. Now, if I can say just one other thing about our foreign policy: The grave problem, my friends, is this: How do you keep the peace without surrender? How do you keep it by avoiding belligerence on the one side and avoiding lack of firmness on the other? We have an example, the example of Cuba. Here is a terribly difficult problem for us. For many months, a little demagog by the name of Castro has been kicking the United States around. He has been thumbing his nose at the United States. He has been confiscating our property. And, so, here in the United States people say: "Why don't we get rid of Castro?" And some people say: "Why don't we do what Teddy Roosevelt might have done or one of our earlier Presidents? Let's send in the Marines." And let me say this, my friends - let me tell you something: We could do that, but, my friends the President of the United States has been right in not using the great power of this country to destroy 5 million Cubans like Hungary was destroyed by the Soviet Union. Let's remember that. Now, what have we done, then? What we have done is the right thing. We have protected our property. We have quarantined Mr. Castro politically and economically, so that the Cuban people will see what kind of man he is, and in their own good time - and it will be a good time, and sooner, I think, than you think - they will get rid of him in their own way. But, my friends, let me say this: we announced this program, and then what do we find? Well, you remember the story about the Hydra-headed monster. That's the problem that Cabot Lodge and I have in this campaign in fighting our opponents. We cut off one head, or they cut their own off, and then they grow another one. For example, take the problem of Cuba. My opponent said when we announced a quarantine program: Too little; too late. And what did he say we ought to do? And I quote him exactly. He said that we should support - the U.S. Government should support - the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba. What happened? This had a terrible effect all over Latin America. It would have broken five treaties of nonintervention we had if that kind of Government intervention had occurred. It also had a terrific effect all over this country. Editorial writers throughout the country said this was madness, that it was wrong. And, so, my opponent then said, "Well, I didn't mean it that way." Well, all I can say is this: If he had made that mistake as President, he wouldn't have had a second guess - and we can't afford such. * * * But no sooner had he cut off his own head on that issue than we found Mr. Stevenson, who apparently is his chief foreign policy adviser, saying not that this is too little and too late, but that this is dangerous policy; it is an aggressive policy; it is going to lead into the hands of Khrushchev; it's going to drive Castro into his hands. Now, I ask you: Which are we to believe? Are we going to believe Mr. Stevenson or are we going to believe Mr. Kennedy? All that I can say is this: I say the American people don't want to go Mr. Kennedy's way. They don't want to go Mr. Stevenson's way. They want to go Eisenhower's way - and that's our way, and that's the way we're going. Now, the last point that I make is one that I make particularly because I know of the great concern the people in these university communities have for the cause of disarmament. People have often spoken to me - my friends who are Quakers, as I am, have written to me - and they have said, "Mr. Nixon, why doesn't the United States show a more flexible attitude? Why don't we take the first step toward disarmament?" Let me tell you what we have done. We have not only taken one step; we have not only taken two steps, but we have gone the second mile, the third mile, way down the line on disarmament. The point is: the Soviet Union is blocking the road to disarmament, blocking the road to stopping tests. Why? Because they want a closed society and they want no inspection. "But," some people say, "Mr. Nixon, why don't we show we have faith? If they say they are going to take our word on faith, why don't we take their word on faith?" Well, my friends, they don't have to worry about faith as far as we are concerned. We don't do anything in this country that newspapermen don't learn about the next hour, or even before it happens, for that matter. Now, that is as it should be, and we wouldn't change it. But go to the Soviet Union, a closed society, and you find you do not have that situation at all. And let's remember one thing: what keeps the peace of the world today? The fact that the United States and our allies are the strongest in the world militarily. This is a force for peace. Whenever that balance changes, whenever the Soviet Union gains strength as against our strength, war's danger increases, because they are wanting to use their strength not as we are, for peace, but to conquer the world. So, anytime we make a disarmament agreement which does not have inspection, under which they might increase their strength as against ours, it increases the risk of war. That's why I say that we stand for peace when we say, as President Eisenhower says: Yes, we will go to Geneva and discuss disarmament and stopping tests; yes, we will go to the summit and discuss disarmament and stopping tests. Yes, but we will never agree to an agreement unless the Soviet Union is going to require inspection as well as the United States. This is the road to peace. The other is the road to war. And, now my last point: we have been talking about hard issues, so-called, hard issues in the sense of diplomacy and strength and economics; but, above everything else, if you will remember this I will appreciate it: whoever is elected President of this country in the years to come will be strong only if the American people are strong in their minds and in their hearts and in their souls, because I want to tell you this: when you travel abroad, what America is respected for primarily is not our military strength, which they know, not our economic strength, which they also know, but for the things in which we believe. I remember our visit to Poland. I remember a quarter of million people shouting and cheering, "Long live America," and over half of them with tears running down their cheeks. Why? Because they knew America stood for freedom - not only for ourselves, but for people everywhere. Because they knew we stood for more than just atheistic materialism, that we stood for faith in God.  My friends, what we need in this country is a zeal and devotion to the ideals of the American Revolution. They are very simple - our faith in God; our faith in our ideals, and our belief that these ideals belong to the whole world.  If you will strengthen America at home in that way, and the young people of America can do it, in your communities, in your homes, in your churches, then the President of the United States can lead a great crusade, a crusade for peace, a crusade for freedom, a crusade in which all men will have progress and peace in the years ahead.  Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, and let's give a big hand to that band over there. How about it? My friends, August Johansen, and this great crowd here at Battle Creek: We want you to know how much we appreciate your coming out. We regret that the train apparently stopped in a place where about half the audience cannot see. I hope you can hear, and we hope to be able to see you as we pull out a bit, but we certainly want you to know to see this great crowd here is one that is inspiring as we move through Michigan today, and certainly on the basis of the crowds that I have seen - as I was saying to one of the newspapermen from this city - this campaign is on the way in Michigan, and we're going to elect a Governor, and Michigan is going to vote for our ticket at the national level as well this year, 1960. I particularly want to say that the opportunity to speak in behalf of Paul Bagwell is one I have enjoyed all day long. I know that there are many people in this area who have expressed concern over the way the economy in Michigan has been moving, and I would just like to make one suggestion: If you want Michigan's economy to move, there is a way to get business in this State, and that is to get somebody running the statehouse in Lansing who knows something about State government, so the people will have confidence in it - and that's Paul Bagwell, your next Governor, and I know you're going to vote for him. I also want to say that, as I speak to this crowd, I realize that you are interested in a number of very vital issues, and there are these that I particularly want you to remember on election day. First of all, this campaign is one that involves the future not only of America, but of the whole world. This campaign is one in which I ask you to vote not as Republicans, not as Democrats, or independents; but as Americans, thinking of what this Nation needs and what the world needs in the years ahead. I say this because I have seen the world, because I have had the opportunity to know the problems with which we are confronted, and because I know that the decisions that the next President makes may determine the difference between whether we have peace or war, between whether we have freedom, for ourselves and for the whole world; therefore, I urge all of you to consider the qualifications of the candidates on the basis not simply of the labels you may wear, but on the basis of whether you think what we stand for is best for America. Now, the second point I want to make in that respect is this: My colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I have had a very unusual, and I think very rare, experience over these past 7½ years. We have worked under the President of the United States. We have sat in the high councils of this administration, in the National Security Council, and in the Cabinet. We had the opportunity to participate in the discussions leading to the great decisions that have been made which have avoided war, which have kept the peace, and kept it without surrender, and I say to you people here in Battle Creek today that at this critical time in our history we need men who know who the enemies of the United States are. And we know Mr. Khrushchev. We need people who have had experience in dealing with these great problems, and we have had that experience. We need people who can lead this country without going through that period when we could make costly mistakes that come from inexperience, whatever the good intentions may be. I don't say to you that we have all the answers. I know how difficult these problems are. I know Mr. Khrushchev and I know how determined he is and his colleagues to make trouble for us all over the world, but I also know this: I know that America is the strongest nation in the world. I know that we're twice as productive as they are. I know that we have the best educational system in the world. I know, too, that we're first in science, and, despite what our opponents may say in any of these fields, it's time the people began to speak up for America and quit running this country down here at home and to the people abroad as well. I say, yes, there are things that America can do to improve ourselves, and we will do that. We're going to see to it that we move forward in civil rights, and may I say in that connection we're proud that we have moved more in 8 years than they have moved in 80 years before. We're going to move forward in education. We're going to move forward with an economic program that will expand the tremendous resources of this country, that will mean more jobs at higher wages for our people, but, my friends, we're also going to move forward in a way that we recognize that everything we do in Washington, every dollar that we spend comes right out of our pocket, and we're not going to spend a dollar there that we thin you can spend better right here in Battle Creek, Mich., and we think that's what you want, and we think that's what the American people want. You know, sometimes people come to me and they say, "Mr. Nixon," they say, "if you want to be elected, why don't you do as your opponent does? Just go out and promise to spend all the money for everything around the country?" I mean it's very easy. I say he will spend about $15 billion more a year than we're spending. "Why don't you raise him? Tell him you'll spend $25 billion a year more." I could do that. Obviously, I want to win this election. Why don't I say that? I'll tell you why. Because I knew something that you know. I know that I'm not paying off those promises with my money, but with yours. I know, therefore, that it's my responsibility to see to it that America's Government spends every dollar that it should for defense, every dollar that it should for education, every dollar that it should in every other area, but I also realize that a President of the United States has the responsibility to stand up against the pressure groups, who for this, that, or the other thing for themselves would have us spend money that would be not in the best interests for all the people of this country, and I want you to know when I go to Washington, if I get that opportunity, as the President of this country, that I'll not owe my election to any boss, whether that boss may be in labor or whether he's in management or whether he's in any other kind of institution in this country. I happen to believe, my friends, that whoever is President of this country has to owe his allegiance to only one boss, and that's the American people, and I'm going to be with the American people. And, finally, I say to you: That if you believe that the way to progress is the way that we offer, if you believe that the way to peace is through strength and through firmness, then I ask you for your support, and again I say: I don't simply stand here and say, I'm a Republican; vote for me because I'm a Republican. I know that my opponent often says the party is what counts. My friends, the party is important, and I am proud of all the candidates I'm standing with here today, with Gus Johansen, a fine Republican Congressman, and Paul Bagwell, but, my friends, we stand at a great turning point in history and the man who is the best which either party can produce has got to be the next President of the United States, and I say to you - I say for that reason, whatever you may be-think of the country, and if you believe that Cabot Lodge and I have the experience, the background that America needs, then we ask for your support, and will you work for us from now until election day? Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Jerry Ford May I request that all of those who have signs hold them down so the people in back can see a little better? If you will just pull your signs down, then the people in back can see. Thank you very much. Certainly, as Jerry Ford and your county chairman have indicated, this is a crowd that will never be exceeded in this campaign or any campaign for that matter, and Pat and I want to express our appreciation to you for giving us one of the greatest welcomes of this whole campaign right here in Grand Rapids. Incidentally, as we were coming along, I had a very great compliment paid to me. At least it will appear that way to my daughters. One of the youngsters alongside of the road said something that Pat overheard. She said, "You know, he almost looks like Maverick." But certainly having all of the young people here out of school and also all of you of voting age is an opportunity which I, as a candidate, have welcomed, and it's one that I do not want to miss on this occasion, but before I speak of the campaign for the Presidency I want to say something about Jerry Ford and about the candidates for State office. First, he is not on the platform because he was unable to make his way through the crowd, but I think that the people of Michigan, after many years of bad government at the State level, are entitled to good government, and with Paul Bagwell you'll get the best government in the United States. And I have been thrilled by the fact that, as we have whistlestopped through Michigan today, we have had the biggest crowds in the history of every town we have been in on that whistlestop tour - and this can mean only one thing: that Michigan is going to vote for Paul Bagwell on the State ticket, for Jerry Ford for Congress, and I think for our national ticket as well on November the 8th. Jerry Ford is one who needs no words from me in this district, but I want to say to you that, as one who has been a close personal friend of his from the time I came to the Congress and he came, as one who knows that he has worked with the President so closely in these past few years, I don't think there is any one man - and I use these words advisedly - who is more valuable in the House of Representatives, Democrat or Republican, than Jerry Ford of this district in Michigan - and let's have him back with the biggest vote ever from this district. And, finally, there is another man who was unable to get here. Al Bentley has been circling in the air trying to catch up with our train, but certainly at the Senate level he will be one of the most articulate Senators that Michigan could ever have - and for Al Bentley I give my all-out support as I appear here in Grand Rapids. And, now, my friends, I want to talk to you very briefly, because you have been standing here a long time and you're crowded, but very directly, about what I think is the most important decision that you will be making this year as voters - not only this year, but perhaps in your whole life. I say that because the time is past in this critical century in which we live and in this critical decade of the sixties in which what happened in Washington was not particularly important as far as people living in a community like Grand Rapids. Now what we do in Washington, what the next President of the United States does in Washington, will affect the lives of everybody in this State and in this city. So, consequently, I urge you to make a decision. I urge you to make it on the basis of what the men stand for, and, what is more, I urge you to work for the man whom you think is best between now and election day, because it is that important to you. Now, let me tell you why I believe these issues are important. First of all, sometimes I know that when you hear talk about spending in Washington or spending at the State level, you must think: Why should I worry about that? I got plenty of troubles worrying about my family budget without worrying about the Federal budget or the State budget. And I know sometimes that you must feel: Why is it that men like Jerry Ford, a member of the Appropriations Committee, fights for fiscal responsibility, fights for a Government that will spend as much as is necessary, but not a penny more than is necessary? Why is it that this is necessary to make this kind of a fight? Well, my friends, there is an answer to that. During the darker days of World War II, one of the world's great statesmen was asked this question: He said, "Why are the allies fighting? What are they fighting for?" And his answer was this: He said, "Well, if we quit fighting, you'll soon find out." And that's the same thing with regard to the fight that Jerry Ford, Paul Bagwell, A1 Bentley, and I are putting on and will put on in this great field, because, my friends, when we quit fighting against extravagant use of your money in Washington or in Lansing, you know what it means here in Michigan. You know that it means that the State's credit begins to drop. You know that it means that even the State employees begin to wonder where their next pay checks are coming from. You know the effect is to discourage new business from coming into Michigan, and you know the effect has been even to discourage the businesses that are already here, and cause them to leave Michigan. My friends, that kind of extravagant government hasn't been good for Michigan. That kind of irresponsible government hasn't been good for Michigan. You're not going to continue it in Michigan, and I say we're not going to have that kind of government for all the 50 States of the United States by sending it to Washington, D.C. When you think that programs of our opponents would each year cost approximately the whole gold reserve of this country, you can get an example of what this spending can mean - and I say to you that I am going to fight for all those programs that we need - in education, in medical care, in all the rest - that will spell progress; but, my friends, I am going to oppose every program that will raise taxes or raise prices for the American people, because I know that's what you need and what you want. And I say to you today that, as we make that fight for you, we are making it because we realize that the money we spend, the promises we make; are not paid by our money, and not by Jack's money, either, but by yours. We realize, therefore, that we are rendering a real service to you when we see that you get your money's worth. Now, the second point I want to cover is one that is particularly appropriate for me to cover in this city, and in this area, which is the home of Senator Vandenberg. He was a great fighter for peace, but he was also a great fighter for freedom, and I am proud of the fact that I stand here as a member of the team that has served for 7½ years with President Eisenhower and in those 7½ years we got America out of the war she was in. We have kept it out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and we're going to continue that kind of leadership, with your help. Cabot Lodge and I stand for that kind of leadership. We know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table, and I can tell you, knowing him as we do, we will not be fooled by him. I can also tell you that in these days it is, I believe, certainly something we must avoid at all costs. We must avoid inexperience, the kind of inexperience where well-intentioned mistakes could lead either to war on the one side or surrender of principle or territory on the other. Let me tell you something: There have been occasions in these last 7 years when I have seen the President make decisions, occasions when if he had made a mistake, the wrong decision, it might have led to war; it might have led to surrender of principle of territory, but because he was wise, because he did the right thing, my friends, we're here today - and I say to you that when we consider the record of my opponent, when we consider what he has said in this campaign, disagree and criticize the President for what he did on Quemoy and Matsu - he thought we should have drawn a line as we did in Korea - criticize the President because the President did not apologize to Mr. Khrushchev, did not express regrets - he said he could have expressed regrets, could have expressed regrets or apologized to him for the U-2 flights - disagreed with the President on Cuba and advocated a policy which, around the world and particularly around this hemisphere, has dismayed our allies - I say that on those three counts alone that they prove that we cannot afford any opponent's inexperience abroad or his extravagance at home, and the American people are going to vote that way on November the 8th. What do we want then? What can we have? I'll tell you what we want. We want leaders in Washington, D.C., who know only one boss, and that is the American people. We want leaders in Washington, D.C., who can go there and be independent, independent so that they can always put the interests of the people first; but, beyond that, in this field of foreign policy my friends, what we need is to believe in the right things, to stand for the right things, to be strong militarily, firm diplomatically, but, above all, we must stand for freedom not only for ourselves, but for people throughout the world. Why do I say this? I say it, my friends, because the moment you surrender freedom or the moment you disappoint the hopes of freedom any place in the world, you run the risk, of losing it here, and we Americans have had a tradition from the time of our foundation for standing for not only freedom for ourselves, but for all mankind. It is this crusade that Cabot Lodge, my colleague, and I ask for your support and your votes to lead. We want to fight for peace, fight for it the only way that it's effective, from strength and with firmness. We want to strengthen the United Nations and the instruments of peace, and we also want to keep alive for all the world the hope of freedom because we believe that is America's destiny, and we believe you think so, too. So, this is my message to you today. If, clearly apart from the parties of which we are members, clearly apart from any labels we may wear, you in your hearts believe that Cabot Lodge and I are the men America needs in this critical period, then I say: Here's your chance to strike a blow for freedom, to strike a blow for peace by working between now and election day in this great crusade for peace and freedom for all mankind. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.  Paul Bagwell, Congressman Meader, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this audience in front of me, in back of me, and on the side of me: I certainly want you to know how deeply my wife, Pat, and I appreciate this wonderful welcome. When we noted that we were stopping at Jackson, it, of course, reminded me of what all of you know: That it was 106 years ago that the Republican Party was founded right here. And I want to say it seems to me most significant that the Republican Party, founded 106 years ago here in Jackson, now is having a revitalization in this very State, which is going to make Michigan a Republican State for Governor and also support our candidates for President and for Vice President and Senator in the U.S. Senate, and I think this is an appropriate place on my whistlestop tour to pay tribute to those in the Republican Party in Michigan who over the past few years have rebuilt the strength of this party, who in 1958 made a remarkable comeback, and who this year are going over the top by giving Michigan what it hasn't had for many years, and that is a Governor who knows what responsibility is and who will draw into this State the new business that Michigan needs and deserves.  My friends, I will have more to say about that in my speech tonight, but I do not want to miss the opportunity here in Jackson to pay tribute to your candidate for Governor and your whole State ticket, because I know what Michigan Deeds. I know the potential of this State, the human resources, the natural resources that you have, and all you need, believe me, is the kind of government in the Governor's office and in the State offices here that will attract the investment Michigan can and will have to move forward, and you're going to get it. You're going to Let it, because he's going to bring it in.  I also feel that this is an appropriate occasion, if you will bear with me for a moment, to speak of the Republican Party and particularly also to speak of some of the things which we stand for, particularly in view of the fact that I understand you had another visitor here recently who said that the Republican Party hadn't had a new idea since it was founded 106 years ago.  Well, I think it's time to lay it on the line a bit, and I'm going to start right here at Jackson in that respect.  Let's begin by pointing out something that I think most of you are aware - that, as far as our Republican administration is concerned, when we took over in 1953, you remember what we found in Washington. You remember there was a war in Korea? You remember we had inflation that had eaten up every dollar of your increased wages and for the people on social security and pensions? You remember? You had it hard. Prices went up 50 percent and your incomes didn't go up at all? You remember that? You remember, too, you had corruption in Washington, bossism? It was so bad that even the Democratic candidate had to say it was a mess, and the people rejected him and elected Eisenhower to clean it up.  Well, we cleaned up the mess. Maybe that's not a new idea, but, believe me, I think it's a pretty good idea to end a war we were in and to get the United States on a peacetime prosperity basis - and that's what we want in America and in the world.  I think Americans want progress without inflation, and that's what we will bring. I think Americans want prosperity without war, and that's what we stand for. I think Americans want us to stand for freedom - not only for ourselves, but for the whole world.  Let me just say a word about this problem of inflation. You know, many times I think those of us in government - and I know Paul perhaps has the same problem, and George, the rest of us - talk about inflation and all of these subjects, the balanced budget in Washington and in Lansing, and it seems the average person who doesn't have the time to go into this---  What difference does it make whether they're talking about that balanced budget in Washington?  Well, believe me, unless we do the right thing about the Federal budget and the State budget, you're going to have a terrible time balancing the family budget. It's just as simple as that, because, just to prove the point, the other day something happened across the world in London, in Switzerland, in which there was an indication that they were losing confidence abroad in the American dollar. In fact, stories were printed in the London papers and in the Swiss papers to the effect that the reason they were bidding up the price of the dollar or bidding it down, I should say, was that they feared some of the economic consequences which would occur in the event that my opponent were elected President of the United States. Why? Because he has spending programs which would result in either increasing taxes or prices, or both, and, in any event, which would promise a runaway inflation.  Let me just set the record straight with regard to what happened. When this was brought to the attention - and I did do it - of my opponent, he laughed it off with a wisecrack.  Incidentally, there was another candidate for the Presidency who was wisecracking. He didn't get very far, and this one isn't going to get very far, either, if he's going to wisecrack about the American dollar. Now, I ask you: I say he may think it's a laughing matter that policies that would inflate our currency, that would be irresponsible, that would cause lack of confidence abroad in our dollar - he may think that's a laughing matter, but I say it's a dead serious matter, and I'll tell you why. Because when they lose confidence in the American dollar abroad, this prestige that we're hearing about all over the world is going to go down, and it will go clear to the bottom.  Let me say also that it may be a laughing matter to him that what we spend in Washington and those policies that we follow may have a detrimental effect on the value of the dollar, but I'll tell you it isn't a laughing matter to me. It's a serious matter when the people living on pensions and social security have their Government break faith with them and proceed to let the dollars that they worked hard to earn not buy what they planned to buy when they saved the money - and I'm not going to let it happen as President of the United States. I'm not going to let it happen.  I say it's no laughing matter to the housewives - I see many of them here when you go into the stores in Jackson and you find the prices going up, as they will go up, if my opponent's farm program, for example, goes in - and it isn't going to help the farmer, either. I say it is no laughing matter. I say we need a President of the United States who recognizes he has a responsibility to be careful with your money in Washington, because, remember, it's your money, not Jack's not mine. And, so, with that in mind, I just want to say that I believe that the American people recognize that when we stand for sound policies in Lansing, for sound policies in Washington, this proves we are the ones who care for the people, and anyone who laughs off what happens to the value of our dollars doesn't care - and I'll tell you why not, perhaps. Perhaps, as far as he is concerned, this may never have been a problem, but it's been a problem to me, and I'm going to tell you one thing: I'm going to see to it that America progresses, that we move forward in education, in housing, in jobs, as we have never moved forward before, but I also recognize that America will not move forward truly if at the time that we're moving forward we eat up all the advances by letting. our prices go right through the roof. This is what you want. This is what I stand for, and the Republican Party stands for it today in this great city of Jackson, where it was founded 106 years ago.  Now, I want to emphasize one other point. When Abraham Lincoln ran for the Presidency 100 years ago, the Republican Party did stand for something. It stood for freedom, freedom for all men. The issue then was only freedom in this country, freedom for the slaves. Senator Kennedy says that the Republican Party stood for something then; but nothing now. But, my friends, I can tell you that for the past 7½ years we not only have been standing for freedom and for peace - we've been fighting for it, and you have had the benefits. We have had peace. We've had it without surrender of our freedom, and this is what we're going to continue to give you under Cabot Lodge and my administration, with your help, in this city in which the Republican Party was founded.  The issue today, my friends, is not just freedom in America. It is not just freedom for the slaves. It is freedom for all mankind. It is a terribly difficult issue.  I would like to tell you in this area where the Republican Party was founded that if you elect me and Cabot Lodge, because of our experience in dealing with the Communists, you won't have to worry any more; you'll have no troubles in the world any more; no rumors of war, no threats, but this is not true.  I know these men. I know the men in the Kremlin. I know those who threaten the peace of the world, and I know that we are entering a period in which great crises will occur, but I can tell you this I think I know how we can handle them. I think if Americans are strong militarily and economically, but, above all, if we are strong in our faith, if we believe in the right things, if we stand for the right things, that we will win this struggle. We will win it not because we are militarily strong, economically strong, because atheistic communism * * *  We will win it because we have the right faith - our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men; our belief that. all men have a right to freedom and that all nations have a right to be independent.  These things are bigger than the Republican Party. They are as big as the whole world, itself.  It is these ideals that I think our party stands for today, and that millions of Democrats and Independents want to join us in fighting for and supporting us in this election, and if you believe here in Jackson that we can give the kind of leadership that America needs, that the cause of freedom needs, then I say to you: We all carry this fight for freedom throughout the world. We will win it without war. We will keep the peace without surrender, and America will be the better for it; but, what is more, millions of people throughout this world - in Asia, in Africa, behind the Iron Curtain - who look to America, who believe in America, who know we have faith in the right things, will say, God bless America, as we sing it today. Thank you.
Thank you. My friend, Congressman Johansen, and my friends here in Kalamazoo, Mich., I want to apologize first of all, as you notice, my voice is a little hoarse. I want to point out I didn't get this cold in Michigan. I got it yesterday in Ohio riding in the rain, but, believe me, there is no better cure for a candidate's cold than to see a crowd like this in Kalamazoo. I'm sure some of you may recall my previous visits here - I certainly do; I remember in 1952, 1956, and 1958 - and we went out to Western Michigan University on one occasion, and I think also while I haven't been there, there are some here from Kalamazoo College. Fine. In any event, this is certainly a great crowd, and of all the crowds I have had in Kalamazoo before, this is twice as big as all of them put together. So, you can see how this campaign is rolling. There are several things that I would like to talk to you about today. First, I think that it is vitally important that in this campaign we have in mind what I call the principle that you, as voters, must always have uppermost in your mind in this year 1960, and I want to put it this way: I believe that the decision you make for President this year can affect not only America, not only the world, but that it will affect everything, every person in this country, because the time is past in America that what happened in our National Government or, for that matter, in our State government was something very far away. Government now is big. Government has tremendous responsibilities, and you, of course, know that whoever is President of this country is going to make decisions that will affect not only the Federal budget, but the family budget, that will affect also the basic issue of all time, and that is whether we're going to have peace, and have it without surrender, in the years ahead. Now, in talking to those points, I want to first say that certainly there is no issue that is more important than the one that I mentioned last, because we can have the best jobs and the best education; we can have the best medical care that we can possibly imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we are not around to enjoy it. Now, I simply think it's time for us to lay it on the line with regard to what the record is insofar as keeping the peace is concerned, because sometimes our memories are pretty short. I remember when I was here in 1952; you remember, too. Those of you who were here, you remember there was a war in Korea. You remember there was corruption in Washington. You remember we had a record inflation that had eaten up all the wage increases of those 7 years, and in the last 7 years we've done some things, but particularly with regard to this whole matter of peace, the American people will be eternally grateful to President Eisenhower for ending one war, for keeping us out of other wars, and for giving us peace without surrender today. But now we turn to the future as far as that issue is concerned, and we pick up our morning papers and we read the stories about how everything is going to pot in the United States, how we're losing our prestige around the world, how the people in England and the people in France and the people in other countries don't like us any more, how the Communists are gaining and we're falling behind. Well, I think it's time also that we recognize this: That we do have troubles in the world, and I can tell you we're going to continue to have them, but the question is not whether you have troubles, but whether you handle them by avoiding war on the one side or surrender on the other. In that connection I will only say this: Cabot Lodge and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat with the President for 7 years. We have participated in the discussions leading to these great decisions, and as far as the record is concerned, we are part of it; we are proud of it, and I think that the American people know what we will do when a crisis comes. As far as our opponent is concerned, I would only suggest this: We have a pretty good idea what he would do, too, and, based on what he has said in this campaign, how he disagreed with the President on Quemoy and Matsu, how he suggested that the President could have apologized to Khrushchev at Paris, is almost certainly the most irresponsible proposal ever advocated by a Presidential candidate with regard to Cuba - when you consider these things, I say that we cannot afford the inexperience of a man like that as President of the United States. And, of course, some people may well say, "But, Mr. Nixon, he's changed his mind about Quemoy and Matsu. He's for the President now. He's changed his mind about apologizing to Khrushchev. He says he really didn't mean it that way. He's changed his mind about Cuba. He really didn't mean intervention in Cuba." Let me tell, you this: I have heard the President of the United States make decisions. I have been there when he had to decide. Do you go into Lebanon or not? And when I have been there, I have realized the responsibility he had. If he had made a mistake, there wouldn't have been a chance to change his mind, and I say we cannot take a chance on one who has made three grave mistakes. I say this: That we had better go forward with leadership that does not promise that there will not be errors, but at least you do have this guarantee: We've been through it. We know what responsibility means, and I can tell you that, with the experience we have, and I can pledge to you that, as we move through this critical period, we will deal with the men in the Kremlin and with all of the enemies of peace in the way I think can best avoid the twin dangers of war and surrender, avoid them by moving forward in all areas as well. Now, I want to turn to one domestic issue, since there are lots of students here. If we are going to move forward in America, there is one thing we must remember above everything else, and that is that all Americans must move forward together. We must leave none behind. We cannot afford in this country not to develop to the full the potentials of all of our American citizens. Now, I'm not just talking now about equality of opportunity. That is a must, and I'm proud of the fact that we've made more progress in 8 years than our opponents did in 20 years. They talked about it, and we produced. But, my friends, I'm talking about the young people of America. Let me tell you what was for me the biggest day of my life, except, of course, the day that Pat said "yes." You know what it was? The year was 1934, and I got a letter from Duke University Law School indicating that I was going to get a scholarship. If I hadn't received that scholarship, I wouldn't be here today, because I couldn't have gone to law school without the scholarship. What I am trying to say is this: There are literally hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of boys and girls in this country finishing high school who don't go on to college. Father Hesburgh, of Notre Dame, told me when I was visiting there last February that they had applications to Notre Dame this year from over 100 valedictorians who couldn't get in because they didn't have enough scholarships. Now, what am I trying to say? My opponent was here last week, and he said: "My opponent is not doing anything about this." He criticized my loan program. Well, Western Michigan knows you had $650,000 worth of those programs, but there is a better answer than that, and I have it, a better answer which is, my opponent's Congress in that rump session failed to act on aid to higher education. You know what it is? First of all, we've got to have a loan program, which we presently have, so that those young people who don't have the money, but can borrow it and pay it back can go on to college. Second, we need a scholarship program, a scholarship program for those young people who couldn't pay back a loan and for those who are tremendously able, because we must not waste the talents of a potential scientist, engineer, lawyer, or leader. And then there is a third program, and one all of you will understand. I say, in addition to that, we have hundreds of thousands of families in this country that did what my mother and father did - saved money so that they could at least try to contribute to the education that we got. I remember my mother used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning to bake pies that we sold in our store good ones - lemon, apple, cherry - 25 cents then. They're worth a dollar today, I'm sure. But what I am trying to say is this: In order that we can get the most out of our young people and get them into schools, I say we should have tax deductions and tax credits for parents who do pay for the expenditures for their young people to go to college and universities. You see, this is the very difference in my approach and my opponent's. His answer is, every time: Take the responsibility off the people. We'll let the Federal Government take care of this thing. Big Federal program. I say the way to progress is: Yes; the Federal Government does its part, loans and scholarships, but also let's remember that the way to progress in America is every time you can have the Federal Government give a chance to people to take care of their own problems and that's what we're doing. Finally, I want to add this last word: When you look over these tremendous crowds we had in Michigan - and they are among the very biggest we've had in the campaign - I want you to know that it makes us realize what a great responsibility we have not only as a candidate, even as a candidate, certainly, but also in the event that this election should turn our way after that. I want you to know that as I see you we will always remember this group here and the others that we have seen by the thousands in already 47 States that we have visited. I know in this crowd are people who will vote for me. I know there are some who will vote for the other man. I just want you to know we know, however, that the President of the United States owes an obligation to every person in this country regardless of his party, to every person in this country regardless of what his background is, and in this period I want you to know, that, remembering these crowds, remembering your attention, standing here, waiting an extra three-quarters of an hour, we will always try never to let you down. Thank you.
Thank you very much. You know, that shows you how very important a wife is. What they were saying on this side - they said, "Move back Mr. Vice President, so we can see Pat." We want to tell you how much we appreciate your coming out at 8 o'clock in the morning to welcome us, as you have. Would you put the signs down so people in the back could see, please? Thank you. You know, I can understand them wanting to see Pat, but not me, surely. But we want you to know how much we appreciate your coming out at this hour of the morning. I'm sorry that our public address system isn't working as well as it should, but apparently as we move into the station - this happened a couple of times yesterday - that is the reason my voice is hoarse - our wheels have been cutting the wires. It's not sabotage, you understand; not sabotage. But, in any event, certainly the most impressive crowd of the campaign is at this hour in the morning and to have this great crowd here in southern Michigan, from Monroe, to come out and welcome us is the kickoff of what I think is one of the most important days of this campaign. Now, George, you listen to what I'm saying here, because this, I think, you will agree with. George Meader, your Congressman, has just indicated that this is the homestretch of the campaign, the homestretch not only of a campaign in Michigan, but for the whole Nation. Now, I have been studying the signs in Michigan. I think you would be interested in a report on it. Three weeks to a month ago the political experts weren't giving us a chance to carry Michigan. In the last 3 weeks, the whole situation has turned around completely. We're going up, and they're going down, and we're going to win Michigan this November. And I want to say right here that, however frantic they get, and whatever they may resort to, and I'm going to have more to say about that, incidentally, a little later today, I can assure you that in this campaign in Michigan we shall win because we're on the right side, because the people of Michigan know it, because Democrats and Independents, as well as Republicans at the State level and the national level want the kind of government and leadership that we offer. Now, let me say a word about George here. He doesn't need this, because he's going to win, as he always does, but there isn't any man in the Congress that is more respected for his integrity, for his great ability and for his service to the Nation as well as to his district as George Meader, and I'm proud to have been introduced by him. He is typical, though, of what else I want to say. I said this the last time I was in Michigan, and I say it again today. I see a lot of candidates around the country. You know, I've been in 47 States already, and I run with lots of candidates all over the country, and I want to say that there isn't a team of candidates any place in the Nation on the Democratic or the Republican ticket that is finer than you have at the State and national level in the State of Michigan, and I mean it. Of course, considering what you had in the statehouse for the last 10 years, believe me, anything would be a welcome change. But Paul Bagwell will give this State great government. Here is a man who is trained to be Governor of a State. Here is a man who is honest with the people of this State. Here is a man who can reverse the situation that has driven business away from Michigan and who will bring it in. This is what Michigan deserves, this strong, vital people here, and, believe me, I'm proud to be with him and to speak for him on this occasion as well; and Al Bentley in the Senate, another fighter for freedom, one who in the Senate will be an articulate voice, not just for the people of Michigan, but, remember, a Senator of the United States speaks for the world, and Al Bentley will speak for all the world in this cause of peace and freedom which George Meader has referred to. Now, if I could go on for just another moment. Is this another PA system? Maybe you can hear now. May I put this campaign in terms that everybody in this audience, I'm sure, will understand and appreciate. My friends, too often we think of government in Washington, D.C., as something very far away from us. After all, you elect a President, a Vice President, a Congressman and a Senator; and the House and Senate meet and decisions are made, but you think, really, that isn't nearly as important as what happens to the prices in the grocery store, to what happens to your schools, to what happens to your medical care, to what happens in all the other fields I could mention. Let me say this, my friends: Today what happens in Washington will affect the prices of everything you buy at the grocery store. What happens in Washington this year will affect the taxes of every person in this audience. What happens in Washington, furthermore, will affect something much more important even than that. It will affect whether we're around to enjoy a good life in this country. Now, if I can talk to those three points, why do I say it will affect the prices? Because my opponent has apparently an obsession. I think he comes naturally by it, and I don't criticize him for it. Maybe if I had his background, I would be the same way; but, you know, whenever he sees a problem, he has an automatic reaction. Whatever the problem is, his only answer is, "Spend more money; spend more money." Well, I've never been able to afford that. So, I don't react that way. Now, of course, a lot of people say, "Well, now, ]ust a minute, Mr. Nixon. After all why not spend more money?" I'll tell you why? It would be so different if it was his dough, but it isn't; it's yours he's going to be spending - and, therefore, I say that in this the choice in clear. The choice is clear because we have here an instance - and I want to make it very clear - he has to acknowledge this - where he offers a program that would spend billions of dollars more, he says, in the name of progress that the programs that I offer will produce the progress that he only can talk about. And in that connection let me say this: Who cares, then, for the people? I know - I know - the problems of people who meet family budgets. I know that every time we spend a dollar in Washington we don't need to, it makes it harder for you to balance your family budget. Putting it another way, every time I think that we can do a job by spending less, we're going to do it by spending less, so that you can have more to spend here in Monroe, Mich., and all over here to meet your family budgets. Now, what does this mean to you? What does this mean to you? You take, for example, his farm program. Now, listen to this carefully. His farm program would result in raising the prices in the food store by 25 percent. This is true, and this is for hamburger; this is for bread, this is for every commodity. Do you want that? No. Do the farmers want it? No. Because it wouldn't help them. It would all make them simply the servants of bureaucrats in Washington, D.C., and would not solve the farm problem as would our program. But, if I can go one step further, in the domestic field, then, we will move this country forward. move her forward with better schools and better housing, move her forward with a medical care program that will provide protection for everybody over 65, and not leave out 3 million as he would, but will not compel anybody who doesn't want it to take it against his will, and we don't want that in America, certainly, in this or any other field. So, I say to you, we will move her forward, but we will move her forward having in mind that as we move we want to be sure that we remember your problems, you, the people, who have the budgets at home to meet. Now the last point I want to make: How about this whole problem of the future of these young people? I see them back there in the band. I hear some of them here. My friends, there is nothing that is more important - nothing - than to get leadership in Washington that will keep the peace without surrender. Think back 8 years ago. You remember when we were traveling through Michigan in that campaign? We were in a war in Korea. Thirty-five thousand young Americans killed. You remember that? Now, my friends, we have had peace, because Eisenhower ended that war. We can continue to have peace, but we won't have it if we have a man in the White House who makes the kind of mistakes my opponent has indicated in this campaign he would have made if he had been President of the United States. In other words, with Cabot Lodge and me, you have two men who know Mr. Khrushchev. You have two men who for the past 7 years have dealt with these great problems and you have two men who will give you, I am confident, the leadership that will avoid war on the one side and surrender on the other. I don't say it's easy. We're going to have troubles in the world because anybody who has traveled through the world as I have to 50 countries knows that we're in a great battle for survival; but, my friends, this battle can be won. It can be won if Americans are strong at home. It can be won if we're strong militarily. It can be won if we're firm diplomatically. But, above everything else, we have to believe in the right things. Our faith is what is going to determine this battle - our faith in God, our faith and belief in the rights of all men to be free, not just here in America, but in all parts of the world - in Poland, in Russia, itself. This kind of faith is what makes America stand high in the world, and, my friends when anybody else tells you America is a second-rate country in anything, they don't know what they're talking about. Have faith in our country. Have faith in our ideals. Help to build real patriotism in this country. If you do that, we will give the leadership America wants, the leadership America needs the leadership that will keep the peace, leadership which will bring progress, but, above all, leadership that will stand for the ideals that we have inherited and that we want to pass on to our children even stronger than we inherited them. So, thank you again for coming out; and let's go to work. How about it?
 Thank you very much. My friend, Congressman Al Bentley, Bob Griffin, all the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this great--- Somebody has suggested if you will pull the signs down the people could see a little better in the back. Would you do that, please? Thank you. Would you pull your signs down? Thank you. As you know, we have been whistlestopping through the State of Michigan today and we have had many great meetings, but I want you to know here in Muskegon that this reception - first, the meeting inside and now the one outside - will go down in my memory and my wife, Pat's memory, as one of the greatest we've ever had in all of our years of campaigning, and we thank you for it. Now, incidentally here, just so we can keep the record straight, I appreciate the fact that some of our friends here support my opponent, and I just want them to know that I expect them to give me the same attention that my people give him when he comes to this town. I know that they will. And I would also suggest, while I am talking about manners, incidentally, that I have been heckled by experts. So, don't try anything on me or we'll take care of you. All you do is to show your own bad manners when you do that. Now, boys, go on around. I didn't hire you. So, stay right out of here. OK? Now, if I may bring my message to you very quickly, first, I am proud to have been introduced by Al Bentley because I think he will make a splendid Senator not, only for Michigan, but for the whole United States and the free world - and I urge his election as I appear here with him in Muskegon, Mich. Second, I am also happy to be in the home district of Bob Griffin. Bob Griffin has what we call in politics something called guts, and that means he has the courage of his convictions. He has the courage to go down to Washington and to stand for what's right. Those who disagree with him recognize it. Those who agree with him appreciate it. You and the people in this district, I know, are going to send him back with the biggest majority ever, with Al Bentley as your Senator as well. And, third, I want to say a word about Paul Bagwell. He couldn't be here tonight, but after the kind of government Michigan's had for the last 10 years let's get a real change and good government here in the statehouse in Michigan. If you want to get jobs in this State, if you want to draw industry in this State, if you want to quit driving it out, elect a real State government rather than the kind you've been having for the past few years. I can tell you that's the way to do it. Now, I want to talk tonight particularly on a headline that I saw in the Detroit Free Press this morning. It was an eight-column head. It said, in effect: "Kennedy Predicts Recession." Now, let me just set the record straight. Let's talk about this. I say that anybody who is a presidential candidate and who goes about predicting a recession is doing one of the most despicable, irresponsible things that I have ever seen in my career as a politician. Now, let's look at the facts. He knows, as well as I do, that at the present time we have 68 million employed in this country, at the highest wages in history. He knows, as well as I do, that the number of unemployed people in this country went down more than usual the last month. He knows, as well as I do, that as far as our predecessors are concerned for 20 years they were never able to solve the employment-prosperity problem except in war or as a result of war - and we've had prosperity without war. And I say the American people like the kind of leadership that got us out of the Korean war, has kept us out of other wars and has kept peace without surrender today - and they don't want to take a chance on other leadership in the future. Now, why is this statement so irresponsible? In this same Detroit paper there was an eight-column head right above that said: "New Car Sales at Alltime High." All right. Now, Mr. Kennedy better make up his mind. Doesn't he think that is a sign that we're moving ahead? Well, I do, and the American people do, too. But let me say this: Michigan depends on car sales. Michigan depends on it, and you know that when a top official talks about recession - you know what effect that's going to have if he continues it? It's going to have the effect of discouraging people from buying, of talking our way into the very recession, and the responsibility will be right on him for doing it - and I demand him to retract that kind of talk, and retract it tonight. And let me say this: America, my friends, can move forward, and we're moving forward, and we're going to move forward under our leadership. There are many things to be done, things which we can do, which we can do if you give us the opportunity to do them. We can, for example, make progress in giving all of our citizens an equal chance at the starting line, and we have done more in 8 years than they did in 20 years, and we have produced on the promises they have made in this field, as in so many others. Also, we will find we can move forward in the field of moving on the depressed areas of this country if we can get our opponents to quit playing politics with this and start thinking of the people, which is what we're trying to do to deal with this problem. My friends, we can move to more employment in Michigan and in the United States if we have the kind of government that encourages Americans to invest in this country - and that's the kind of government we're going to give it, and it's the kind of government that Paul Bagwell will give it here. in the State of Michigan. And, so, I say to you tonight, my friends, as I look at this future, I point out some facts that we Americans should not forget. We've heard so much talk about America being second in education, second in science, second in space, in this field and that. We have heard so much talk about our prestige falling around the world. Well, my friends, we're in a great battle. We're in a great game - we can call it that - a competition. Have you ever seen a team in a game that won when it thought it was a second-rater? We're not a second-rate country. We're a first-rate country, and it's time for us to say it and think that way. And I say today America is first in education; we're first in science, and in all of these areas we can move forward and stay first, but we're not going to do it if we keep talking gloom and doom and second-ratism as our opponents seem to do. One other point: Here in this great audience are members of my party, members of the other party and independent voters. I want to say this: that in this particular year, 1960, what happens to me is not particularly important. What happens to my opponent is not particularly important. What happens to America is important - and I say that all of you, whatever your party is - I ask you - I ask you to consider us not just as men, not just according to party labels, not according to what somebody tells you how to vote down at Detroit or someplace else. I say, my friends, search your own conscience. Listen to the candidates. Think of what's best for America, and if you believe that Cabot Lodge and I can give the leadership that will keep the peace, that will be firm without being belligerent, that will extend freedom throughout the world, that will bring progress, but bring it without inflation, that will bring prosperity without war - these are the things we stand for - if you believe these things, then will you go out and work for us and carry Michigan this November. Thank you very much.
Back in 1940, in the heart of the darkness of World War II, Winston Churchill spoke with brave contempt of the day when the "corroding finger" of Hitler would be scourged from the face of this planet, and when men and women and children would climb again to the "sunny uplands of peace." Twenty years later in this year 1960, those of us who are free are resolved that the day shall surely come when everywhere people shall have a free choice for freedom and the corroding finger of communism shall be gone from the earth. The time leas come for the contest to shift, more heavily than ever before, into the realm of the ideals and the beliefs of men. As you know, after my trip to the Soviet Union last year, Mrs. Nixon and I visited Poland. If I am elected President, I will have as one of my objectives, before my term of office ends, to seek the opportunity to visit, at least once, every one of the satellite nations of Eastern Europe, including Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria and Rumania. The purpose of these visits clearly will not be to seek to stir up revolutions that can only fail, the kind which can end only in the needless slaughter of brave fighters for freedom. Nor will these visits seek fatuously to win the good will of the Communist rulers. I do not believe that Communists can be converted by "warm welcomes" and slaps on the back. But this I do believe: It will be the responsibility of the President and the Vice President of the United States to remind all the world again and again that these Eastern European people who walk in darkness shall one day be delivered out of bondage. To guide American policy wisely and bravely against the coming of that day of dawning, it will be the responsibility of the next President to have at his command constantly all the facts he can get about the people and the rulers of these countries. To proclaim again America's friendship for these people, to reaffirm our trust in their ultimate deliverance and to get these facts firsthand - these will be the goals of the journeys we hope to make to eastern Europe. The time has come for America and the free world to work even harder to carry the message of freedom into the Communist world. For there America has friends. I have seen them lining the streets of Warsaw by the thousands upon thousands, cheering the United States, tears flowing down their cheeks. When the great Polish-American pianist, Artur Rubinstein, returned to his native land in 1958 after an absence of two decades, the audience in Warsaw's Philharmonic Hall did something they had done only once before in its history, and then at the entrance of their beloved Ignace Jan Paderewski, they rose to their feet in tribute. And when Artur Rubinstein's concert ended with Chopin's heroic "A Flat Major Polonaise," his audience wept and cheered and sang "May he live a hundred years." Whenever I hear politicians whining about our weaknesses and alleged loss of prestige, I think of that story and of brave captive men and women of Slavic and Czech and Polish and Lithuanian descent who know what servitude and poverty and tyranny are. I wish our fainthearts would try to tell those people of their own weariness and despair over America's greatness. I wish these opposition politicians could try to tell them that they in their capacity, and not we in our freedom, are living under the regime which is the wave of the future, which offers to its children hope and growth and the inheritance of the earth. And I should like to hear the answer - the answer that men and women of Prague and Warsaw and Budapest could give to such twisted whimperings. I believe that the United States of America in the decade ahead will continue to be worthy of the friendship and faith of such people who are not now free. But we shall be worthy of them only as we work with constancy and clearheadedness and courage toward victory for freedom everywhere. We must wage this struggle in the free world, in the uncommitted world and in the Communist world.
Add up the amounts appropriated by the Federal Government for research on minerals and fuels in the 8 Truman years. Then add up the amounts appropriated in the Eisenhower years. What do you find? The Eisenhower dollar figure - more than $217 million - outstrips the Truman figure by 30 percent. Specifically, the Eisenhower administration has invested more in coal research than any other administration in the history of this country. And that's not all. The Eisenhower administration has launched a program, new this year, which goes beyond the traditional long-term basic research done by the Bureau of Mines of the Department of the Interior. In April of 1958, the administration requested the Congress controlled by Senator Kennedy and his followers to authorize the establishment of an Office of Coal Research in the Department of the Interior - an office which would undertake a crash program to find new uses for coal and thus to give the industry a shot in the arm and materially increase employment. On July 7, 1960, President Eisenhower signed H.R. 3375 which his administration had supported into law and the way was clear for the new Office of Coal Research to become a reality. Now, what will this new program do? For the first time in our history the Secretary of the Interior will have authority to contract for coal research - make contracts with universities and private research organizations for investigations of specific ways to make new and better uses of coal. These investigations are applied research, supplementing the basic research already underway on a scale unmatched in our history. We must discover new uses for coal, both to provide more employment in the coal fields and to help strengthen America for the future. For work this current year, the Office of Coal Research has an appropriation of about $1 million ; for next year, we will ask the Congress to double that figure. But remember this: Ii Congress had passed the authorization 2 years ago, when we first requested it, that the first and second and third million dollars would already be at work; scientists and engineers in a score of institutions could already be on the way to breakthroughs which might well give the U.S. coal industry forward thrusts such as it has never had before. Let's get on with this job. I promise you that if elected, we will do just that.
As I look to you today and as I think of the many sections of this State that are represented; as I think, for example, that a group of approximately 2,000 schoolteachers from this area are present I realize that there are many problems that you would like to have discussed on an occasion like this. Obviously, because of our very tight schedule, you know, getting around 50 States, which we intend to do, we trust, during this campaign making all the stops you want to make is quite a job. But under the circumstances we have to limit the number of subjects talked about to those of greatest general interest. But here particularly there are some subjects that I know will be of interest to everybody - not only to those in this great university community in which I am proud to appear but also among those who come from the countryside, those who may be in agriculture, in industry, in mining, or whatever industry is represented in this great audience today. And I think, above all, if I were to select one subject that is of greatest interest to Americans today, it is the subject of the survival of the Nation, survival of our freedom, survival without war, keeping the peace without surrender. I know that sometimes when we mention this subject there are those who might think for a moment that these policies that are made in Washington and in Geneva and in Moscow and the like are very far away; that there isn't much we can do about it out here in Illinois; that there isn't much, therefore, we should be concerned about; that, after all, the President and the Secretary of State and the Vice President will work these things out, one way or the other, and we're going to have to live with whatever solution is worked out. But, my friends, the time is past in the United States when foreign policy was simply the concern of the President and his advisers. The time is past in the United States when interest in foreign policy was limited to those who live on our great seacoasts and who, therefore, had more of a feeling of communication with the lands across the sea. The time is past when people in the great central part of this country looked upon foreign policy as something they would rather not discuss - the so-called isolationist sentiment that existed or used to exist or was supposed to exist in this part of the country. Today foreign policy is the concern of every American. We can find solutions and the very best solutions to the farm problem, to the education problem, to the housing problem, to the budget problem, anything you name. But if we aren't able to solve the foreign policy problem it isn't going to make any difference because we aren't going to be around to enjoy the solutions. So I say to you today that I discuss that problem first because it is vital, because we must find :in answer to that before anything else. It is vital to everybody in this audience, to everybody in this Nation today. There was a time when I could point, for example, to these beautiful young ladies around me, who have escorted Pat and me to this platform, the young ladies from southern Illinois, most of whom, incidentally, are going to be teachers, and say to them: Well, obviously, you are concerned about foreign policy because those who are your future husbands are those who will have to fight the wars in which this country might be engaged. But, my friends, we know today it is much bigger than that. This country has been blessed, blessed by the fact that war has never been visited upon us. But anybody who has seen devastation in the cities abroad - in London as I saw it in 1947, in Berlin as I saw it in 1947, in northern Italy where there was considerable devastation in Milan and Sorrento, in southeast Asia - anybody who sees what war does when it comes to a country realizes that we have been fortunate that our only contact with it has been when our young men have gone abroad to fight for freedom and for peace. The next war will not be that way. I don't need to tell you that. No country is going to escape, not even the United States and, incidentally, not, certainly, the Soviet Union. So, turning to the point, what can we do? What can we do to keep the peace? What can we do to keep it without surrender? What can we do to extend freedom? What can we do to extend freedom without war? Why do these two concepts that I mention - keeping the peace without surrender and extending freedom without war - go together? I'll tell you why. Because those who are the enemies of peace and those who are the enemies of freedom are the same people. I refer to the Communist leaders. I know them. I have talked to Mr. Khrushchev, to Mikoyan, to Kozlov, to Gromyko, to leaders of the Communist world all over the world. And I can tell you, having talked to them, and having seen their faces, knowing their dedication, that these are men who, whatever their views on other subjects may be, are consumed, literally consumed, with a dedication to conquering the world for communism. Now, at the present time the Soviet bloc follows the line that they will accomplish that objective without war. And we would hope that they would continue along that line. But, make no mistake about it, if you read closely what they say, they say, "We will conquer the world without war, and we think we can, but our objective is to conquer the world - period - and to use any means that are necessary." And, so, when you are confronted with men like that you have to have men on our side of the conference table who know them, men who are not going to be taken in by them, men who are just as tough as they are, men who are just as firm for the right as they are firm for the wrong. That's the kind of leadership America needs. I can only tell you that my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I know what this job demands. For 7½ years we have sat with the President in the National Security Council and in the Cabinet. We have participated in discussions leading to the great decisions in those 7½ years. You say: "What does that prove?" And I say it proves this: Under the leadership of the President we got the Nation out of one war, we've kept it out of others, and we have peace without surrender today. Cabot Lodge and I both know the Communist leaders. He, like myself, has had the experience of sitting across the conference table with them. And, therefore, you know what we will do. You know, I think, how we will react. You know, certainly, we aren't going to be taken in. And may I say in that connection that the reason I bring his name into this is that this job of keeping the peace must be a full-time one, not only for the President, but for the Vice President, for the Secretary of State and, for that matter, for all of the American people, for reasons that I could well expand upon. I pledge to you today that Cabot Lodge and I will work together, that I will see to it that he, to the extent that his duties permit, will continue to work in the cause of peace, as he has so magnificently done in the past 7½ years at the United Nations. We will strengthen the instruments of peace. That means the United Nations and the Organization of American States and NATO. It means also developing new instruments of peace. It means going the second mile, as President Eisenhower has so eloquently stated, to attempt to work out the differences we have between the Communist world and the free world. But it also means recognizing that the way to war is paved with a naive attitude that, if you surrender or abandon this or that little island of freedom any place in the world, then that leads to peace, America and the world have learned, in dealing with Hitler, one dictator, that the moment you feed a dictator's appetite by giving in to his demands for territory that you never satisfy it, that you only encourage it and stimulate it. We learned it in Korea, where there again a wellintentioned Secretary of State said we would surrender, in effect, or certainly we will not defend, a certain area, South Korea, which was in the area of freedom. The result: It didn't lead to peace. It led, as you know, to the war which we had. And I say that America had enough of that kind of policy in 1953. We don't want any more of it now, and Cabot Lodge and I assure you we are not going to have any more of it. I want to make one thing very clear: My opponent is just as dedicated to peace. He is just as dedicated against communism as I am and as my colleague. The point that I want to make with regard to him is that it is not a question of what you intend. The question is what you can accomplish. And I want to say in this respect that based on his conduct during this campaign, where on three critical issues he disagreed with the President, on Quemoy and Matsu, on the Cuban situation, on the President's conduct at the Paris Conference, in which he declined to apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev, if he had made those mistakes as President they would have been disastrous to the very cause with which we are concerned. People may say: "But he's changed his mind. He didn't mean it." My friends, when the President of the United States makes a decision there isn't, a chance, many times, to change your mind, to second guess it. You cannot be rash. You cannot be impulsive. You've got to be right the first time. I'm not suggesting that anybody is going to be right all the time. I do suggest, though, that what we must do is to be sure, as sure as we can, that the leaders we have, and based on the experience they have, will not make the mistakes, out of best intentions, which my opponent has indicated he might have made if he had been President. Let me turn now to other considerations. We not only, of course, want a peaceful world. We want a good world. We want a world in which life can be better for our children than it has been for ourselves. That's the American attitude. My father always used to say he never wanted to go back to the good old days, because he remembered how hard they were. He always used to say, too, that he wasn't satisfied. He never told us, "Look, you've got it pretty good these days." I remember what he used to say. He used to say that in America what makes this country great is that we always want to move forward. Now, my friends, let's get one thing straight today. You've heard a lot in this campaign to the effect that American education is second, that our science is second. You've heard about this, that, and the other thing with regard to America's economy, that it's running down, it has been standing still, that the Soviets are going to catch up with us. Let's get one thing straight. There are things wrong with American education. There are things wrong with American science. Certainly we can move forward in the economy. But let's keep the record straight. America hasn't been standing still. She has been moving forward. And let's also keep the record straight on this: We can be thankful that in America we have the best education, the best science, and the most productive economy in the world. Now, let me speak to the point of education. What can we do at the Federal level? What can we do to improve education in America? I have announced programs. I would just like to cover them very briefly since this is a university audience, or at least a university community in which all the audience, of course, is interested in this subject. I would like to cover briefly what I believe on this subject. First, we have got to get in our school system at the primary and secondary level the kind of support which will enable our various school districts to raise the standards of education generally in America. And this means raising standards for our teachers as far as salaries are concerned. It means providing the necessary buildings where those buildings are the primary need. It means increasing the standards as far as operation standards are concerned, if that's the problem. Now, how do you get at it? The best way to get at it, I think, is through a Federal program which does not make the mistake of aiding the local States or communities and then getting the power to control what is taught in our school system. That's why I have said over and over again that the answer to education - and here there is no question at all about Federal control - is through aid to school construction. Because when you aid school construction your local districts, your States, can use the money the best way, the way in which it is most needed: to raise teachers' salaries. That generally is the major need. Now, how do you get at it? The best way to get at it, I think, is the boys who will be marrying them and I have been thinking of what may happen to them, how they got there. I was talking recently to Father Hesburgh of Notre Dame. You know what he told me? He said that over a hundred young men who had been valedictorians of their class had applied for scholarships to Notre Dame last year and couldn't get them. Now, whether they went to college or not I do not know. Many of them may not have. The point I am making is this: I remember the biggest day in my own life, other than the day, of course, I met Pat. The biggest day was when I received a letter telling me that I was going to get a scholarship to study law at Duke University. If I hadn't gotten that letter I wouldn't be here today. Now, what am I trying to say? Here we have young people who are fortunate. You are going to college, to universities. You have the opportunity which many hundreds of thousands of young Americans, who may be able, as you are, do not have. My friends, we can't afford this waste. We can't afford it from the standpoint of the country and it isn't right as far as the individuals are concerned. America needs to develop to the fullest the talents of any young man or woman who is qualified to go to college. And I've got a program that will do that very thing. What is the answer? Let me tell you what it is. The easy answer is to say: "Well, this hasn't worked out. Individuals haven't solved this problem. The States haven't solved it. So, we'll set up a Federal program that will do it all. The Federal Government will have loans and scholarships, and that will solve the whole thing." But that's the wrong way to do it, and I'll tell you why. There's a better way and I'll tell you why. The Federal Government has funds which can be expended under the proper circumstances and my program includes that.. The Federal Government has a program for those who would not be able to pay back loans even if they should receive them. Third, there is another category that is completely left out from those two that I have described. There must be in this great audience - and certainly there must be among the parents of these girls here in front of us - many who have worked and saved, as my father did, so that they could help their children go to school, as I was helped, because a scholarship alone wasn't enough. I remember my mother used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning to bake pies. That's one of the things that helped. They were sold in our country store. Now, my friends, how can we help Americans to help themselves? There is a way. I say what we ought to do is to give a tax credit or a tax deduction to parents or others who pay tuition or other expenses for their children to go to college. I could give other illustrations. The point that I want to make is this: This is the American approach. The easy approach is to say: Pass it all over to Washington. But the right approach is, whenever you can, to rely on and to encourage individual responsibility. That is what has made America. My last point: I was often thinking as we came up the Illinois Central tracks today what must go through the minds of people as they see me and my wife standing on the back of the platform, looking at these tremendous audiences as I see this one today. And I suppose they would normally think: "My, this election is important to those two. They have worked hard." And, therefore, they would not be surprised when I say that this election is the most important election in the country's history. My friends, it is important to us from a personal standpoint, but that isn't what matters. What happens to me, what happens to Senator Kennedy, is not particularly important. What happens to America, what happens to peace, what happens to the cause of freedom, what happens to progress, progress without war, prosperity without inflation - what happens in all these fields - that is important. So, I urge all of you today, whatever you are, Democrats or Republicans: Think before you vote. Think in terms not of the party labels. Think in terms not of the individuals and what happens to us. But think in terms of what America needs. This is what the world needs, nothing less. 'This is what our Nation needs, and nothing less. I am convinced as I stand here, having visited over 50 countries in the last 7 years, knowing America, knowing the great forces that are coming together in the world, that these next 4 years may be decisive in the history not only of America but of the world. And we can settle for nothing but the best leadership that this Nation can produce. You know what that leadership is. I cannot tell you. If you believe that ours is the leadership that America needs, then I ask you to go out and work for us as you have never worked before, remembering that you will not be working just for a man or a party but that you will be working for what is best for the Nation. This is the least that America requires of its citizens today. And to all of you again our deep appreciation for bringing us here, for allowing us to come to this university campus and to see so many of you vitally interested in America on this magnificent day. Thank you.
Here in Centralia, Ill., I want to throw down a challenge to Senator Kennedy. I challenge him to come into Illinois, or any oil-producing area, and say exactly what his position is on the current foreign oil imports control programs, originated by the Eisenhower administration. Does my opponent favor the oil import control program? Specifically, does he favor the part of it which cuts back on the amount of residual fuel oil, produced abroad, which can be imported into this country? My own position on foreign oil import controls is absolutely clear. I favor the continuation of this program because I believe it is necessary to our national security. I also challenge Mr. Kennedy to say exactly what his stand is on the oil depletion allowance. And I challenge him to say the same thing in New England as he would say in oil-producing areas. Again, my own position is perfectly clear. I favor the continuation of the 27½-percent oil depletion allowance for our domestic oil producers in the interests of a strong and expanding domestic oil industry which undergirds our national security.
Thank you very much. I'm very sorry that our crowd is so big here that some of you will not be able to see as we're talking but certainly, as the Governor has indicated, this is one of the greatest crowds that we have ever seen in this area, and we thank you for coming out, as you have, to welcome us. And now some people are suggesting that if you will lower your signs so the people in the back could see, please, if you would do that - thank you. First, I realize it's hard to listen when you can't see but if I could have your attention for just a few moments: First I want to say I am very proud to be here with our candidates in the State of Illinois, with Governor Stratton and his team for State office, with Sam Witwer, running for the U.S. Senate, with Frank Walker, your candidate for Congress. I know them all. I commend them to you as the best men for the job, and I am proud to be here on the platform with them in Centralia. You know I've been to Centralia before about two or three times. You can take all the crowds we had before and they would be about one-third put together of what we have here today. I just can't get over the size of this crowd. Thank you. In speaking to you today, I am going to try to do something that I think you will appreciate and that is to put myself in your place because you know sometimes I think people get so tired of hearing candidates for the Presidency get up and say, "I'm going to do this and I want this and I want that and the other thing." And the folks sometimes say, "Now look, why doesn't that fellow ask me what I want? After all I'm his boss." And that's right. You're the boss of the American President, whoever he is, and the only one he must ever have and I assure you you're the only one I'm going to have - the people of America - and that we're going to take orders from, as far as that's concerned. Now, what do you want? I think above everything else, as we consider what the people of America want today, they want a future in which our young people, all the thousands of children here, can grow up as they have in the Eisenhower years, in peace. You remember when I came through here in 1952. Do you remember we had a war in Korea? There were hundreds of mothers in this crowd who were worried about their sons in Korea. Do you remember the situation in Washington? Why, it was so bad that a former Governor who ran for President twice, whose name escapes me, said it was a mess in Washington. Well, let me say this: It was a mess, but there's no mess there now. You can be sure of that, because we've cleaned it up and also because we have gotten this Nation out of one war, we've kept out of other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today. And, my friends, I tell you that there's nothing more important than that - you know it. Think of the Korean war. Then we were worried, because our young men were overseas. Did you ever stop to think that there has never been war in which we in America have felt it here at home? But you have been, some of you, to Berlin or to Tokyo, to Warsaw, or to some of the other cities that have been devastated by war, as I have and, my friends, when you see what it is you realize what we have been saved from and, as far as any next war is concerned, we just can't let it happen. We can't let it happen, because it will bring devastation to the whole world. My friends, we can keep it from happening. We can keep it from happening if we don't make the mistake. of misjudging the men in the Kremlin. What do I mean by that? I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know the Communist leaders. They, differing from us, think not in terms of peace, but in terms of conquering the world and, you know, they are willing to do anything to do it. And that's why we must never make the mistake of letting America's strength be anything other than it is today, and that it is so strong that they cannot start anything without risking destruction. I will keep America strong because I know that we must have that. There's another thing we've got to remember. You know a lot of well-intentioned people come to me sometimes and they say, "Mr. Nixon, hasn't President Eisenhower been too tough? On this Quemoy and Matsu, why didn't he turn over those islands to the Communists? Why run the risk of war over them?" Let me tell you why. Because when you're dealing with dictators, my friends, when you're dealing with dictators, the way to war is to give in to their blackmail. Let me put it in terms all of us will understand. You go here today and ask the chief of police - I think he's standing right down here in front of me. You ask the chief of police how he keeps crime under control. You know what he'll tell you? He'll tell you that you've got to make it so that crime doesn't pay. If crime doesn't pay, people don't engage in it. Now that's true with nations too. Whenever the men in the Kremlin think they can get away with aggression, whenever they think they can get away with international blackmail, demanding concessions here and there, then they're going to think that it pays. And we've got to be firm, we've got to make it clear that the United States is not going to surrender to them in any part of the world. That means that if they know we're firm, we're able to negotiate, negotiate from a position of strength, and we stand for peace without surrender, and that's what all Americans stand for, Democrat and Republican alike, and that's what I believe, this day in Centralia and throughout America. In this field, then, you have a known quantity. You have Cabot Lodge and myself, two men who know the men in the Kremlin, two men who have not been fooled by them, two men who believe in America, who don't think this is a second-rate country in any respect because we know America and know the world, and two men who will speak up for America around the world. And we offer that in contrast to our opponent, a well-intentioned man - no question about that. He doesn't want war. He wants peace as much as we do. He's against the Communists just as we are. But the point is, my friends, when the President of the United States sits in that oval office in the White House and makes a decision it determines whether America survives or not. I was there when the President made the great decisions. I remember the Monday morning that he made the decision on Lebanon. You've almost forgotten that name - Lebanon. Do you remember? Do you remember when the President ordered troops into Lebanon to stop the Communist spread in that area? I remember when he made it. He paced the floor and he said, "Well this is it. We've got to send them in." If he had made the wrong decision because of shooting from the hip, because of immaturity, because of inexperience, America might have become involved in war or surrender, or both. We need a man in the White House with at least enough experience so that the chances for mistakes are reduced to the minimum. Oh, I don't say that I or anybody else is going to be perfect. Certainly I would be the last to say that. But my friends I've been through the fire. I know what it means to sit there and see these decisions made. I have made some myself. I can only say this: knowing the men in the Kremlin, knowing what the problems are, I pledge to you that we're going to put the peace of this world first. We're also going to put freedom first. And standing for peace and freedom we cannot lose, and I am confident you will agree with that. Now the other point that I want to make is one that's very close to home. You know sometimes people come up to me and they say, "Now, Mr. Nixon, why is it that you don't go around the country as your opponent seems to be doing, promising everything they want?" They say, "After all, it's not your money that's going to pay for these promises." And that's true. It's neither his nor mine. "Why don't you go around making these promises? That's what the people want." Let me tell you this: The reason that I stand for spending as much money in Washington as we need to spend for defense, for education, for health, for social security, but not a nickel more than we need to spend, is that I know that every dollar or nickel that we spend comes right out of your pockets here in Centralia, Ill., and I'm going to keep it right down to the minimum. I think that's what you want so you can have more to spend here. Let me put it in simpler terms. I remember that when we were growing up my older brother for 1 year very desperately wanted a pony. The pony didn't cost much for modern standards, as I recall. My father could have bought it for about $75. And my brother, who died when I was quite young, kept saying, "Oh, I want this pony more than anything in the world." Now, being the oldest son, he was kind of a favorite, as you can imagine, with my mother and my father and they wanted more than anything else to give him what he wanted. It would have been easy for them to say, "Look, you can have the pony." But, you know what happened? My mother and father had a little family council and they came in and they said, "Now, look, if we buy this pony we're not going to have enough money to pay the grocery bill; we're not going to have enough money to pay for the clothing bill; we are not going to be able to get the shoes for your younger brother." It was an awfully hard decision for my mother and father but it was the right thing. What does that have to do with being President of the United States? He does that every day. He would like to promise everything to everybody. Just shell out the dough, as my opponent is promising to shell it out - $15 billion worth. But, my friends, he's got to think of the whole American family, not just some special interest group, for the sake of votes. He's got to think of the whole American family, and he's got to put them first. And I promise you that's what I'm going to do. We will spend everything that we will need that will help all Americans. But no special group is going to get anything which will not make it possible for us to do right by the whole family. This is what we want for America. So I say to you, in conclusion, that there are many other things that I could speak of but, above all, I want to leave this final note with you: I often say that this is the most important election in this Nation's history. The other day somebody said to me, "Well, of course, it is. We expect you to say that, Mr. Nixon. It's important to you because you're running." And that's true - important to me but only in a personal way. My friends, this election is not primarily important from my standpoint. What happens to me or my wife or to Senator Kennedy and his wife - that's not material. What does count is what happens to you, what happens to America, what happens to the cause of freedom throughout the world. And I say to each and every one of you, consider that. Don't think of the labels we wear but think of America. Think of what's best for America and then vote for America. If you do that then the world will be better off and America will be better off, and all of us will be the happier for it. The last thing that I want to say is on a personal note. I can't resist as we come through Centralia, which is a great railroad center, telling you what I really wanted to be when I was growing up. You know they have asked my mother many times, "Now, Mrs. Nixon, when the Vice President was a boy what did he want to be?" Well, actually, I certainly had no idea I'd ever be running for President. I can assure you of that. You know what I wanted to be? Right alongside our house ran a railroad track and I used to hear the whistles at night and I used to think of all the places those trains were going and I wanted to be a railroad engineer so that I could travel through America and through the world. I didn't make that, of course, but I got to travel anyway. But may I say to those who run the Nation's railroads: Remember that it's a wonderful service you're rendering. And also to all of you who have come out to hear us, never forget this: America is the greatest country in the world and the way you can keep it great is by voting your conscience, voting for what is best for America, and getting other people also to see that this is the way to a bright, new future for all of our people. Thank you very much.
This is, certainly, at 8 o'clock in the morning, one of the greatest crowds that any campaign ever saw. We certainly thank you for coming out. It means that the people in this area are getting up early, working hard, because you're going to be sure Illinois is in our column on November the 8th, and certainly when I speak of our column, I am speaking of our whole ticket, of Bill Stratton, your Governor, of Sam Witwer, your next United States Senator, and, of course, my old friend, Les Arends, whom all of you know so well. How about a hand for the whole ticket? Thank you. My, I just can't believe it. I mean, I don't like to get up early in the morning. That's one thing that's very different. People say, "Well, now, Mr. Nixon, how are you different from President Eisenhower?" Well, I want to say one thing: As far as our devotion to and our belief in how to stop communism and how to win the peace, President Eisenhower and I stand together, and that's why we've been able to work for the peace of the world as we have in these 7 years. But from a personal standpoint, we do have this difference: You know, he grew up in the service, and all of you fellows who have been in the service, as I was, will recall you had that reveille about 6 o'clock in the morning before your eyes get open. Well, in any event, the President often has breakfast at the White House and you get an invitation for breakfast. You know what time he has it? Seven o'clock in the morning. And there's one promise I'm going to make: There won't be any 7 o'clock breakfasts again if I become President because, you see, the difference is I like to work late at night. When you stay up until 12 or 1 o'clock working, it's hard to get up in the morning. But, be that as it may, apparently the people in Danville are just like President Eisenhower. You like to get up early in the morning. Well, now, there's one fellow who said - he says, "We like you, too." What's your name ? Thank you. My friends, as you notice, I have a little cold. I want to tell you I didn't pick it up in Illinois. I got it in Ohio a couple of days ago. But the reason I got it was our crowds were so big over there, even in the rain, that we had to ride in the caravan in the rain, you know, one of those sitting in the back of the car. Believe me, after you have done that for a while and get inside and make a talk, it's a little hard to keep from picking up a cold. But, believe me, a bad knee didn't keep me from running, and a cold isn't going to stop me, either. We're going to keep going from now on out. Well, I'm going to try to talk to you this morning about - frankly, not what I want to talk about, but - what I think you want to talk about. You know, this morning on the train, as we were riding through this countryside, I was thinking, well, now, people get up this early in the morning. - I wonder why. I just wonder why they do it. Well, I think the reason is that all of you are concerned. You are concerned about America, and you're deeply devoted to this country. You want to see it get the kind of government it needs, the right government, and because you're here with that concern, what ran through my mind, as I was telling Pat at breakfast, is this: I said, too often those of us in politics are getting up and saying, "I think you ought to do this. I think you ought to do that." So I said I would like to reverse it this morning. So, I said I am going to try to think in terms of what do the people want. What do you want? What do you think you want from government in Washington, D.C.? So, let's think about that. The first thing you want, obviously, is what is natural for all of us. We want to be able to make a decent living. We've got to have that, because the women here aren't going to be able to go out and shop and buy the groceries and the clothes and everything else you need and then pay the bills at the end of the month and have a little left over for retirement or, for that matter, to send the kids to school. So, we want to make a decent living. You're testing me. You're testing my opponent, as you should. How do we measure up on that score? My friends, I want to say here today that on that score I know what those problems are, because I've had them. I remember my mother used to get up at 5 o'clock every morning in our little country grocery store to bake pies so that I and my five brothers could get the education my father didn't have. My father came from Ohio, and his mother died when he was quite young. Consequently, he went to work and he only got a 6th grade education. But, incidentally, that didn't hurt him. He was still quite a fellow. But I was going to say this: My mother and my father had this devotion: the thing that they lived for with the five of us - they wanted us to have a better chance than they had. That's what they wanted. So, they got up early in the morning and she baked pies while my dad was going over to the market to get vegetables and put them in the store. I did it when I was going to high school and college, too. So, I know what those problems are. I know, for example, what the problems of our older people are. Again, if I can speak personally, I remember my mother and dad - after they were past the earning age, they had operations. They were ill. My mother, incidentally, is still living, as you may know, but there was the problem of doctor bills. Now, they didn't happen to have social security. They didn't happen to have any pension. They didn't happen to have enough life insurance that they could borrow. They had saved some money, and fortunately they had saved enough that they could take care of those bills, but I know many of the people in the little town that I grew up in weren't like that, people that were just as honest, people who tried just as hard as they did, and who had these bills and had to go on relief, on charity, in effect, in order to pay them. That's one of the reasons that on that particular issue I feel we've got to develop a program to handle it. Another thing I remember what you want: I remember the biggest day of my life. It was the day I got a letter from Duke University in North Carolina saying I was going to get a scholarship to study law. If that letter hadn't come, I wouldn't be here today. And then I thought today of the literally hundreds of thousands and millions of young people in this country, young people who ought to go to college, but who, because they might not have the money and couldn't borrow it and couldn't get a scholarship, weren't able to go, and I thought of the waste, not only the personal problem, but the fact that here in America we cannot afford to waste the talents of a potential scientist, or a doctor, or a lawyer, a Congressman or a Senator, or even maybe the President of the United States. So, these are the things I thought of. So, we want a good living. We want our children and our neighbors' children to have an equal chance at the starting time. We want them to have a chance to go to school. We want our parents and ourselves, when we get past the earning age, not to have to go on relief to pay their medical bills. We want all these things. And now the question comes: How do we get them? And here's where we have the great difference between Senator Kennedy's approach and mine. He says, "Well, these are terrible problems," and they are, but the people can't handle them. And, so, "We'll just set up a great, big Government program. We'll take the money. We'll send it down to Washington and the Washington people, the people in Washington, will set up huge programs in education, and in health, and in all these other fields, and they'll take care of the people." Now, my friends, that sounds good. There's only one trouble with it. It won't work. It's been tried in country after country abroad, and every country that has turned that way wished they were following the American way today, and it's the American way that I want to follow today. My friends, what is the American way? The American way is for Government to do what it ought to do, but never to take a responsibility from the people that the people can do themselves. Government should always encourage people to handle these problems themselves. Government should always give people a choice. If, for example, our older citizens want health insurance, they ought to be able to get it, and I have a program that provides for it, a much broader program than my opponent's but I say that no American should be forced to have compulsory health insurance against his will. I don't think that's the American way to handle the problem. Take the field of education: You know it's awfully easy to say, "Well the Federal Government ought to take our young people and set up scholarships and loans and just handle the whole problem." Now, we need some scholarships. We need some loans, but, my friends, what about the millions of people in this country who save their money, as my mother and father did, in attempting to get their kids to go to college? Why don't we give them a better chance? You know the way to do it? I've got a plan. I say what we ought to is to give tax credits and tax deductions to those who pay the expenses for their kids to go to college - and that's the way you all want to do it, and in every way I can spell it out that is the way to handle these problems. What about jobs? Now, my opponent a couple of days ago in Detroit made the most disgraceful, irresponsible statement probably of this campaign, other than the one that. he made on the Cuban situation, which if he had made as President would have lost us all of our friends in the world. Now, in this connection, what did he say? I don't know whether it was carried down here in the Danville papers that way, but a screaming headline, across eight columns of the Detroit papers said: "Senator Kennedy Predicts Recession." Now, my friends, lets think of what's happening. He knows there are more people with more jobs than at any time in history. He knows there are pockets of unemployment. But he knows that his rump session of the Congress didn't do a thing about it, and we will, and it's time we ought to lay these things out so that the people can understand it. But he also knows this: He knows that in 20 years before our administration came to Washington - remember this: think back - we never had prosperity and employment except in war or as a result of war - and we don't want that today. You see what I mean? If we want to move forward. if we want jobs, the way is through peace, with peace, and without inflation. And also my opponent knows this: He knows the unemployment figure dropped last month and, you know, a funny thing, that same Detroit paper that carried that story had another eight column headline right below it. You know what it said? "Car Sales at Alltime High." You know what that means? That means steel goes up in production. It means that car sales go up. It means that Americans - Americans who ought to know - that they aren't betting on recession. I say the American people have got a lot more sense than Senator Kennedy, because they know that we're not going to have * * * I say the American people have faith in our economy, and I wish Senator Kennedy had a little more than he has at the present time and would quit talking that way. Now, on the last point about peace: You know what I would like to do? I would like to stand up here and say to every one of the mothers and fathers: "Elect Cabot Lodge and me. You don't have to worry about anything. You're not going to have any more troubles in the world. Mr. Khrushchev isn't going to stir up any more riots. He isn't going to stir up a riot as he did in Caracas, where they threw stones at my wife and me." Incidentally, they threw a few tomatoes and eggs at us yesterday. But let me say this: I have been through a few hecklings, and a few tomatoes and eggs aren't going to stop me either. And if there are any in this crowd, you just try it and see. But, incidentally, if people think we're so hard up, how can people afford the tomatoes and eggs? They were pretty good ones. Anyway, getting back to this subject on the area of peace - now, the world isn't going to be all "smooth seas," but I'll tell you this: In Cabot Lodge and me you have a couple of fellows who know Mr. Khrushchev. We sat opposite him at the conference table. We have not been fooled by him, and that kind of leadership will keep the peace, and keep it without surrender, and I say we should not take a chance on the inexperienced, immature, impulsive, rash leadership that my opponent has indicated time and time again in this campaign. Now, finally, speaking again of the family budget, you know, I remember many of the housewives used to come into our store, and I could tell the ones - we ran credit in those years, in the 1930's - I could tell the ones who were going to be able to pay the bills at the end of the month and the ones who were going to run aver. You know, one lady would come in and there would be nice hamburger. I ground it myself, incidentally - no suet in it, all meat - and it was mighty good, incidentally, only 22 cents a pound then - but here would be some nice hamburger and over here would be a fine beef roast. So, the lady would buy the hamburger; because she had a big family. She would have preferred the beef roast. Somebody else would come in and get strawberries out of season rather than the other thing. What I am saying to you is this: I'm saying to you that I know what the family budget. means, and I want to say in thinking of the family budget, that I know that we must not spend $1 in Washington that will make it harder for you to balance your family budget. My opponent's programs would add $15 billion a year. Oh, he'll deny it because this doesn't sound so good, but it would add $15 billion a year to our budget to carry out his platform, and you know what that would mean? Raise the prices - raise the taxes - of every family in America. Do you want that? No. You're not going to get it, because he's not going to win. Well, my friends, again may I thank you for coming out. May I tell you there's nothing more inspirational than to see a great crowd like this, and I make one final pledge to you: I know the problems of the families of America. I have been through them. I care about them. I know the problems, for example, of our farmers, as well as those of our city folks, and I'm determined we're going to do things about it. We're going to do things that will not put our farmers on the Federal payroll, in effect, with a bunch of bureaucrats telling them what to do, but one that will lift the surpluses off their backs, so the farmers can handle their own problems the way they want to do it. And, my friends, I also want to tell you this: Cabot Lodge and I are not supermen, but we pledge to you that, to the extent that our abilities and time and effort mean anything, we will give America the most devoted leadership of which we are capable, and I say it particularly because I will remember all of our crowds but because I remember a crowd like this - people getting up at 7, 6 o'clock in the morning - if you get up and come out, you've shown a lot of faith, and we're not going to let you down. You can be sure of that. Thank you very much.
Senator Hickenlooper, Congressman Schwengel, Congressman Chiperfield, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, this great audience here in this hall in Davenport, those who are listening on television and radio: First I want to say that this ends one of the most exciting days of campaigning of this whole campaign. We started this morning whistle stopping through southern Illinois. We came up through the line and in every place we stopped we had the biggest crowds in history at those station stops. And then tonight when we arrived here we had a reception at the airport that certainly equaled and probably exceeded any that we have ever had in terms of color and enthusiasm: all the way into the city, the torchlight parade with the "Nixon Girls" - and we thank them, all 250 of them, who participated - and then after that the opportunity to hear at the hotel just before we came to the beginning of this rally, but before that the speech by the President of the United States which I'm sure you heard, too. Then, after I came in for the first time, I had the treat of hearing the man who I believe ought to be serving and will serve with Bourke Hickenlooper as the junior Senator from the State of Iowa, Jack Miller. I hadn't heard him speak before but believe me, he can lay it on the line and that's what we need down there in the U.S. Senate. That allows me to say also, as when I visited Iowa before, on my first visit that I'm tremendously impressed with your State ticket here, with Norman Erbe and others, and I'm glad to see this State return to the Republican fold at the State level. I proudly support all of those candidates and also of course I want to say a word for your own Congressman, for Fred Schwengel. I want to say something about him that is a little bit unusual. You know we often speak of our colleagues in the House and Senate in terms that are rather impersonal, in terms of their service, and I could speak of him in that way. But you know a man best either through his parents or his children. His children, particularly, reflect the kind of man he is and it happens I know his daughter, Dot. She works in my office and if he's half as good as Dot he must be a tremendous person. I'm glad also to have my friend, Bob Chiperfield here. I'm going to have more to say about him tomorrow when I speak at Rock Island. But all in all, just let me say this my friends: when you elect a President, remember he needs help. He needs it in the Senate; he needs it in the House, so give us your support for our Republican candidates for the House and the Senate in the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois. Now the only problem that I have at this point in the evening is that everything I was intending to say virtually has already been said by the President. As a matter of fact, what he didn't say, Jack Miller said. But I have a couple of things left over and I do want to say some things which happened here that even the President couldn't have said tonight; some things which are very close to my heart, some things which relate not only to the people of Iowa but to all the people of this great midwestern part of the United States. It seems a long time, Bourke, since I was here a few days ago and we did not whistle stop but motor caravaned from the Nebraska border over to Des Moines. Since that time we've traveled to States all over this Nation. We have seen immense crowds and in the past week we had our first whistle stop tour by train. Let me tell you a bit about it. It started in Pennsylvania and ended with a tremendous rally in Pittsburgh. The neat day we were in Ohio, ending with the rally in Cincinnati, which was on television. Some of you may have seen it here. The following day we traveled up through the heart of Ohio, through Columbus, where my father used to work on the street railway as a motorman, then ended that night in a rally in Toledo, Ohio. The following day we went up through Michigan ending with a rally at Muskegon. And the point about all these States, these key States, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, and now Iowa - I say that here the Republican cause and tide is running strong, and Democrats by the thousands are joining with us to support our ticket. Now I want particularly to talk to that point. We expect Republicans, of course, to vote for our ticket in view of our splendid record. But why is it that the Democrats and Independents are now turning to our leadership as they did in 1952 and 1956? Because they do not have confidence in their own ticket and they realize that the more as this campaign goes on. They realize that whoever is President of this country is going to have to be the leader of the free world and the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of this country. They realize that the requirements of the Presidency, as the President himself indicated tonight, in this critical year, 1960, and the burdens are greater than those that have fallen upon perhaps any leader in history. They realize that it is essential in making the decision as to who should be President that it not be made simply on the basis of the labels we wear but that it has to be made on what we stand for, on our experience, on our background. And it is on that basis that I again present my case, the case of our ticket, to the people of Iowa, to the people of Illinois, and to all others who may be listening by television and radio tonight. There are many issues. Many of them have already been touched upon. But I would just like to add a word with regard to this issue by moving America forward. As the President well pointed out tonight, anybody who says America is standing still has got a hole in his head. Remember, the last candidate that ran against the President had a hole in his shoe. Well, since that time, things have moved along so well that people can get their shoes half-soled, at least, since 1952. As far as standing still is concerned, of course, they're getting off that record a bit. You know why? Because they can't sell it. The American people know better. Look around in your own community. Look at the buildings that have gone up in these last 8 years. Look at the schools that have been built. Look at the highways that have been built. Look at the progress that has been made. You can't fool the American people by saying, "Look, you've been standing still for 8 years," when they realize that they were standing still and started to move when Eisenhower was elected President. You can take any index you want - housing, health, schools, anything you want and you will find that America has moved more in these last 7½ years than in any administration in history. And we will move even faster in the years ahead, because we've got a bigger base to build on, and that's why I say tonight, to all Americans, that we are a progressive people who want to go forward and we know the way. Our opponents have lost the way. They lost it and they prove that they lost it because what do they advocate? Oh, yes, they talk about these new frontiers. They sound very good. But, you know, when you go back to the frontier times, do you know how we crossed the frontiers of America? That wasn't done by a weak people saying, "We've got to have the Government work out all these things." The reason that Americans were able to cross and conquer the frontiers was that they had individual pioneer spirit and that's what we need today to conquer the frontiers of the future. Let me just spell out in very simple terms two items that I think illustrate the difference in approach in what my opponent offers in this campaign and what we offer. Jack Miller's speech reminded me of it. First, education. Now let's think in terms particularly of higher education. I've often said on this whistlestop tour today that perhaps the most exciting day in my life, next to the day that Pat said "Yes," was the day when I received a letter back in the year 1934 from Duke University indicating that I was going to get a scholarship to study law. If I hadn't received that scholarship I wouldn't be here today because I couldn't have afforded to go to law school. My parents could help me some, but I needed the scholarship. Now, today, all of us in America realize that as a matter of national urgency we must not waste the talents of any young man or woman who has the ability to make a contribution to America and who ought to go to college, but who can't afford it because of the money. But now comes the difference in approach. Our opponents would suggest that the way to handle this problem is to say, "Well, the Federal Government will take over. We'll set up a Federal program that will handle this from top to bottom." Now let me tell you what our program is. We already have a Federal program, as you know, of student loans, loans for those, particularly, who were going to make contributions in the field of national security. And so, we build on that to begin with. We add to that a program of scholarships, a limited number, for those students who would be unable to pay back loans, but who have extraordinary ability and who want to go on to college. But we don't stop there. The major part of our program is this: We feel that what we have to do is not only to have these Government programs, which will take care of part of this problem, but we want to give the American people a chance to do it in the way that they traditionally have done it. And I might say, in that connection, I know that in this audience tonight, listening on television and in this hall tonight, there must be literally thousands of parents who did what my parents did and worked hard. I remember my mother used to get up in the morning and bake pies, 5 o'clock every morning; we sold them at the store - worked hard so that they could help their children get through school. So, what I say is that, in addition to these Federal programs, what we need is to set up a system where we give tag credits and tag deductions to parents who help to send their children to college. That allows it to be done in the American way. In other words, you see the difference. We are trying to encourage individual responsibility. Now let's take medical care for the aged. I can speak from a personal standpoint about this. I remember the year my father died, just before the last election in 1956. My father and mother both had operations that year. They were very expensive. They were able to take care of them out of their limited savings, but it was hard. Now I know that in the country today there are literally hundreds of thousands of people who, when they get past the stage of earning, have catastrophic illnesses which come to them. And the question is: How are they going to be able to take care of them? We wrestled with that problem, as Bourke and Fred and Bob here can tell you, in this last Congress. We wrestled with it trying to find the solution. Now here again we have two diametrically opposed plans. Our opponents say, "Well, we can't handle it at the individual level. We can't handle it at the State level. So what we've got to do is to have a Federal program that will be compulsory and that will compel everybody who is under social security to have health insurance if they're over 65." Everybody, of course, pays the bill, all up and down the line on the basis of your social security. Now, let's look at that program for a moment. First of all it's compulsory. Second, it doesn't cover 3 million people over 65 who don't happen to be on social security. Now what is our answer? Our answer again does it, I believe in the American way, the individual way. First of all we have a program which is State and Federal. Second our program is one which, instead of saying to the individual, "You have to have a Government program," he can have a private program, if he wants. He can buy private health insurance. But third we say that, whereas we believe that everybody over 65 who wants health insurance ought to be able to get it, and our program enables him to do so, we say that no program should compel anybody to have health insurance if he doesn't want it. That is the American way to deal with this problem. And, so, here you see two different programs. We want to keep what we have today, and that is the best medical care in the world, and you aren't going to keep it if you set up a compulsory system run by the Federal Government in Washington, D.C. You can keep it with the kind of system which we would set up, as I have pointed out. Let me turn now to a third problem - the farm problem. I discussed that in detail when I was in Iowa before. I have already indicated through a statement that I have issued covering my remarks tonight, my attitudes on it, which you can read in the papers. I would like to summarize those attitudes for our television audience. First of all, we begin by recognizing, as I did in my speech when I was here in Iowa at the plowing contest and the one the following week in South Dakota, that it is essential that we find a program under which our farmers will get a fair share of our increasing national prosperity. They're not getting that today. They can get it, and there is a way to do it. The question is: What is the way? Well, first of all, I'll tell you that there is the wrong way. And the wrong way, as you might imagine, is the one that our opponents are offering in this campaign. I can tell you that it's the worst farm program, certainly from the standpoint of the farmers, that has ever been offered in the history of this country. The 60 percent of American agriculture, for example, that has been free until now will be put under rigid control - 250 more products - from Washington. You know how many Government-compliance inspectors you've got now; you would have four times as many. You would have $250 million more a year to send around administrators to be sure that the law wasn't broken. You would have fines and even jail sentences to be sure that the farmers complied with the quotas. Under this managed scarcity - and that's the best way I can describe it - about a million jobs would be destroyed on the farms. One-fifth of all our agricultural marketings would be eliminated. You would be reducing acreage. Take wheat, 38 to 46 percent; cotton, 35 to 40 percent; soy beans, 20 to 25 percent; feed grains, 30 to 35 percent. Incidentally, these are not political figures developed by a political staff. They come from the career people at the Department of Agriculture, who my opponent said would be able to describe his program and cost it out - and this is exactly what they say it would do. As far as the farmer is concerned, it would put upon him a straitjacket worse than anything he has ever experienced before, and one that has certainly been described as the most drastic farm program insofar as controls are concerned that we can possibly imagine. It goes the wrong way, in other words, the wrong way as far as the Nation is concerned, and also as far as the farmers are concerned. In that connection, just let me say this one thing: We hear a lot about where America is second these days. Now, a lot of this talk is nonsense, certainly in the field of farm production. Here is one place we can be proud of the fact that we're first in the world, and we're going to stay first in the world, because we find that in the United States approximately 7 million farmers and farmworkers produce as much as it takes 50 million farmers and farmworkers to produce in the Soviet Union. You see, my friends, that gives us a tremendous advantage in this struggle between communism and freedom - the productivity of our farmers. But if we adopt a program like this we run the risk of becoming second in agricultural production. That is one of the reasons we've got to be against it, apart from the fact it would not help the farmers in the long run. It would do nothing but hurt them. Now, what is the answer? Well, the answer is, I believe, the program we have advocated, a program which is based not on scarcity, but on abundance, a program which would lift the surpluses off the farmer's back by distributing far more of them abroad and by finding new markets at home; a program that during that period that we were getting rid of the surpluses, lifting them off the farmer's back, w e would compensate the farmers through payments in kind and keep farm income moving up. This is the kind of farm program that moves in the direction of freedom, and control by the farmers of the program rather than by a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington who ought to get their hands out of the farm business. And I will only say this: I don't pose as a farm expert. But I know some, including the Senator from Iowa, Bourke Hickenlooper. And I can say that there is nothing that is going to be of higher priority, if I am elected, than breaking this bottleneck that exists between the executive and the legislative branches of the Government, in getting an imaginative farm program that will make an all-out attack on surpluses, one that will certainly deal with this problem in an effective way. I think it can be done. I think it can be done with good, strong leadership. I think it can be done also with the assistance of the Secretary of Agriculture, who, as I have indicated, I believe should come from and represent the great heartland of American farming, the Midwest of the United States. Now, another point that I would like to touch upon: People suggest to me, "Well, Mr. Nixon, we're a little worried. Maybe things haven't been standing still. Maybe you do have some good programs, but we read in the paper the day before yesterday" - and these were tremendous scare headlines in the Detroit paper when I was there "that Senator Kennedy predicts recession." Now, I want to talk to that point. That is probably the most despicable, and the most ignorant comment made in this campaign to date. Now, first, I want to tell you why it was ignorant - and that's pretty easy. It was ignorant because in the very same paper - and he should have known this - the headline immediately below it was: "New car sales at alltime high." Now, my friends, if there's going to be a recession, the American people apparently weren't let in on it because if they're buying more cars than ever, they have faith in the economy and they think it's going to go ahead. And just let me tell you something: This economy is going to go ahead. It is sound. We have seen unemployment move down last month more than seasonally and employment rise more than seasonally. New car sales are moving up. This means that steel and other production move up. And all I can say is, what will destroy - and this is the despicable part of this comment - that confidence? You know what it is? It is more of this kind of scare tactics where we try to talk ourselves into a recession. But here again I don't think our opponent is going to get away with it, because I'll say this: The American people are just too smart. They aren't going to believe it. He may have more dollars than you have, but you've got more sense than he has. I guess I don't have to spell out the kind of sense I meant. I have one last point that I want to mention. It is one which the President discussed with great eloquence and conviction tonight. He spoke much too generously about my qualifications, but I want to speak very frankly to this audience, to the American people, the people of this area, about the chance for peace, for freedom, in these critical years ahead. The easy thing for me to say - and the political thing - would be: Elect me and elect Cabot Lodge and all your troubles so far as the world is concerned will be over. I could say that, but that wouldn't be true, because I know the men in the Kremlin. I have seen their hard faces. I have had Khrushchev shake his fist in my face and talk about his missiles. I know that he is ruthless, fanatical, cold, and that he has only one aim - and that is to conquer the world. At the present time, fortunately, he says he will accomplish his aim without war. But make no mistake about it, he's determined to accomplish it - he and all the Communist leaders - by any means, if necessary. And, therefore, as long as you have adversaries like that, they're going to make trouble for us. They're going to make trouble all over the world. You saw it, if you picked up your papers today. They picked up a couple of Communist spies in New York. They're here now, in America. Their agents are all over the world, and they will continue to be. They will continue to stir up trouble. The question in these critical years that we enter is not whether or not we're going to have trouble, because they're going to make it. The question is whether we're going to be firm and mature, and not be knocked off balance, and not be panicky, and not shoot from the hip, and not be rash and impulsive. This is the question that the American people have to decide. I cannot tell you that I won't make any mistakes. But I will tell you this: I have been through the last 7½ years. I have seen the President make great decisions. I remember the Monday morning that he made the decision to go into Lebanon. He paced the floor, in that oval office at the White House. I was sitting there, the only other person in the room, and the President finally said, "We'll have to do it." The decision was made. If he had made that decision the wrong way he wouldn't have had a second chance. My point is this: We cannot afford in these critical times to have as President of the United States a man who does not think first before he acts. And I can pledge to you that I know what this responsibility is. I know the men in the Kremlin, and I am confident that with Cabot Lodge's assistance we will avoid mistakes certainly as well as any two could avoid them in these critical times. But, more than that, we're not simply going to stop at fighting for peace, which we should. We also are going to try to represent at its best the American ideals of freedom to all the world. Why is this essential? Because only as we stand for the extension of freedom throughout the world can we effectively meet the thrust of the Communists who are fighting to communize the world. And, so, I say in conclusion to you: If you believe that we are the team that can keep the peace, keep it without war, then we say, go out and carry the State of Iowa and Illinois for our ticket. Thank you.
Vice President NIXON. Thank you very much. People have requested that people with signs put them down, so people in the back could see a little better. All right? [Applause.] I want to thank you for coming out in such tremendous numbers to welcome us as we come through this part of Illinois. I realize, incidentally, that there are people from two congressional districts and I want to say that in Bill Stratton and Wallie Ackerman, we have two men, one already in Congress, the other that ought to be in Congress, and I give them my wholehearted support and I urge your support of them on election day. [Applause.] It goes without saying that to Sam Witwer on the State ticket, and to Bill Stratton who heads that State ticket., Sam Witwer, you're the next U.S. Senator, and Bill Stratton, that I'm very proud to be on the platform with them. [Applause.] Now, as I look over this audience I realize that driving in the ground fog today to get here has been quite a problem and we know that it has been a lot of effort for some of you, particularly those who have come from many miles away. So consequently, I don't want to miss the opportunity to talk about the things that you're interested in. You know, too often, we have a situation here, where, I think, sometimes people think the candidate is always talking about what he's interested in, and people must say: Well, why doesn't he talk about the things that I want, that I'm interested in? And I've been trying to think as I pass through these whistlestops in Illinois today about those hopes that are within the hearts of all Americans, the things you're thinking about, and I think they're pretty much the same. I think, first of all, above everything else, that you want for your children, even a better life than you've had for yourselves. I know that was typical of my mother and father. As we were growing up they worked hard, they tried to get us through school, get us properly clothed, and housed and so forth because they were thinking in terms of our future.. They were living for that. And out of this audience, I imagine there are literally thousands of mothers and fathers that are thinking: How can we meet the bills this month so that we cannot only buy the food so that our children can have the right kind of a diet, but that we can get the clothes and shoes and other things that they need so that we can save the money that is needed so they can also have an education, education which is so important in these days not only for the children, to the families, but to America itself ? You know, we can't afford to waste the talent of any young person in this country who has the ability to go on to college. That's why I have programs in these fields that will move America forward, that will provide the opportunity for the people of this country and particularly for our younger people to get the education which will enable them to make their maximum contribution to America's greatness. We also want, as we think of our children, I am sure that every one of us must think of the problems that we have in meeting the family budget. Often times, I think, those of us in public office become so concerned about our problems for billions of dollars for the Federal Budget, whether we're going to have a billion and a half deficit, or a billion and a half surplus, and the like, we talk about that, but we fail to understand the people who vote are concerned about that, of course, but also their major concern is: How are you going to meet that family budget? This month? How are you going to pay for the shoes and the clothing and the housing? How are you going to pay for the groceries? How you're going to save the extra amount for social security, pensions, all the other things which mean meeting the budget at the. end of the month? And I want you to know that I appreciate this problem because I've gone through it. I know what it means from a personal standpoint. I know what it meant to my mother and my father. I know, for example, this. During the years I was growing up, my father had a life insurance policy for $6,000. I remember, incidentally, it was with the New York Life Insurance Co. That isn't very much money today, but then I could tell you one of the most difficult problems we had, that we had as a family, was during the month each year that that premium was due, to get the money together to pay it. Now let me say this. Today, probably 90 percent of the people in this audience either have life insurance or social security. They are saving for the future, and you want, when that future comes, to be sure that the hard work you did to save that money is not frittered away. You don't want to be robbed of your savings, do you? Let's suppose somebody were to come in and say, "Look, I am going, at the point of a gun, to take away half of what you've got in life insurance. I'm going to take away half of what you've got in social security." Or, if you're working in a plant, "I'm going to take away half of your pension." What would you do? You'd fight, wouldn't you? You bet your life ! What I'm asking you to do is fight against policies that would return us to what we had with Mr. Truman in office, that took away 50 percent of the life insurance, of the pensions, of the social security of the people of this country. [Applause.] And friends, I believe in fighting against high taxes and high Government expenditures. Why? I believe in it because I know we're robbing millions of our older people. We are destroying the hopes of millions of our younger people trying to plan for the future, and are making it hard for every family in America to balance its budget, whenever we in Washington say, "The only answer to the problem is to spend more money." My answer is this: The Federal Government must spend more in several areas. We've got to have more for defense. We're going to have to have more in the field of education. We're going to have to have a better program in the field of medical care, but my friends, the reason why my programs are better for America than those of my opponent is this. That his would turn all of these problems over to the Federal Government, they would cost an amount equal - get this - each year to almost the entire gold reserve of America that's in Fort Knox, and do you know what that means to you? It means higher prices, higher taxes for the American people. And I say, my friends, you've got something to fight for. In the next 9 days between now and election, if you want to keep your savings, if you want to keep your pensions, if you want to fight against having those prices go up so you can't meet the family budget with your pay check, then go out and fight for our ticket because that is what we stand for, and fight against those who will do that very thing that I have been talking about. [Applause.] Now, one other point I want to make. People say, to me, "Now, Mr. Nixon, we read in the paper yesterday that your opponent says we're going to have a recession." Now let's talk about that just a minute. Are we? The answer is "No, we're not going to have one," and he knows it. He knows it. He's reading the paper as I do. He knows it, the economy is moving up. He knows that unemployment went down more than seasonally last month and employment went up more than seasonally, and you know a funny thing? In that same Detroit paper that I saw was an eight-column head "Kennedy Predicts Recession." You know what an eight-column head right underneath it was? "Auto Sales at an Alltime High in America." [Applause.] Now let me tell you what that means. That means that Senator Kennedy is betting on a recession but the American people are betting on prosperity and the American people are right and Senator Kennedy is wrong, and that's why we're going to defeat him on November 8. [Applause.] You see, what we need is faith in America. We've had enough talk about America being second in education. We've had enough talk about America being second in this and that and the other thing when it isn't true. Now listen, when there are things wrong with this country, and there's lots we can do in education and other fields, we're going to correct them. But my friends, the way to correct them is not to think that we have a national inferiority complex. The way to correct them is to move forward with faith and confidence in the greatest country in the world, and let me say this, I am proud that the American people are not listening to the gloom and doom of people who apparently want to win an election so bad that they will distort the facts and that they will try to scare this country into recession. And let me say this. They're not going to get away with it because the American people have more sense, apparently, than the candidate for President on the other side. [Applause.] You understand, I said more "sense," not more dollars. He's got more dollars than you have, but you've got more sense. [Laughter.] Now my last point. Let's talk a little about the basic issue, most important of all. I see these young people. I think of the young men, most of them were younger than I that served with me in the war, and I remember some of them that died. I remember that I had to write the letters to the mothers back home from Bougainville, from Green Island, from the other places that I was stationed at. I remember, too, as I thought of that war, and as I've seen the devastation in Tokyo, for example, in 1953, still huge blocks knocked out of our enemy, as I saw it in Berlin, as I saw it in Italy, and the rest of the countries, I thought how terrible war was from a personal standpoint but also from the standpoint of its devastation. My friends, that's nothing, of course, as to what will happen if we have another war. America has been very fortunate, as you know. We have never been in a war yet where we have suffered at home. Our fighting men have gone abroad but we've never had it come to America. The next war, if it comes, will come to America, and therefore the major responsibility for all Americans, the major responsibility of the next President is to give his country the leadership that President Eisenhower has given it, that avoids war, that got us out of one, and keeps us out of others, and that's what we plan to do, and I think we can do with your help. [Applause.] How do we do it? Oh, it isn't easy. I can tell you that knowing the men in the Kremlin, sitting the opposite from the conference table with Mr. Khrushchev, I know how tough they are. I know how determined they are to conquer the world, but my friends, there is a way. When you're dealing, as we are, with dictators, men who are bullies essentially, above everything else you must be stronger than they are, and second, you must let them know that they aren't going to push you around. If you let them know that, that means they will not start anything. In addition to that, once you have that kind of strength, then they'll sit down and talk to you. Because they realize if you're stronger than they are, and they start anything, they're going to get hurt too. And that's the hope for peace today. The hope for peace, in other words, that we want, is to keep America stronger than those that threaten the peace. The hope for peace is to be firm against those who threaten the peace so that they can't blackmail us. The hope for peace is then to go out and sit down, from a position of strength, and negotiate for disarmament for peace but always from strength and never from weakness. And that's what Cabot Lodge and I will do. That's what we think we're qualified to do because we've had a bit of experience in it, and I can't talk about mine, but I'll say that I don't think anybody could have done a better job than he has in the United Nations for the last 7 years fighting for the cause of peace and freedom. [Applause.] My friends, this election is almost upon us, and I suppose as you listen to me, you see my wife, Pat, and you say: "Well, he's bound to say it's important, it's sure important to him," and it is, in a personal way, but what happens to me, or for that matter to Senator Kennedy, or to Pat, or to his wife, is not important, not in the real sense. What is important is what happens to America. What happens not only to America but to the hopes of millions of people throughout the world, on both sides of the Iron Curtain who want peace, who want freedom and for whom America is the hope of the whole world. Let me just say this to the students here. Never forget that you live in the most wonderful country in the world. When you travel in the years ahead and you come back, and you come back to America, as you come on a ship as I did a few years ago, and you see the Statue of Liberty, it makes tears come to your eyes. You don't know why, but it does. When you travel as I did around the world and come back for the first time in 1953 and see the coast of North Carolina from our Constellation, it brings a lump to your throat. I'll tell you why. Because this is a great country. It's the greatest on the face of the earth and because when you travel abroad you find that people everywhere have their hopes in us. Oh, I don't mean, I don't mean by that that there aren't some people that think our policies are wrong. I don't mean by that the Communists leaders like us. They never are going to like us because we're never going to give them what they want, but they're going to respect us, if we're strong. What I mean by that is that America at its best stands for what people everywhere want. They want peace. They want freedom. They want to have faith in something other than just men, they want faith in God, and so what I say to you, "Let's not let down America and let's not let down what America stands for." You don't do it here at home. If you don't, if you stand for what's best for America, whoever is President of this country will be able to stand for America and the cause of freedom in the world. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
Thank you very much. My friend, Governor Stratton, Senator Schloginhoff, Congresswoman Simpson, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, and our friends here in Quincy - incidentally, I understand you must have come from all over the country to be here in this tremendous crowd, and we thank you for making it such a success. [Cheers and applause.] I can still see people coming from over there, and I only regret that the situation was such that we couldn't have gone into the city and had our meeting there, but in order to make all the stops we want, we had to come here and you came to the airport - and, believe me, that means a lot. As a matter of fact, as we were circling up above, we could see how far away the cars were parked, and I can tell you there's nothing that gives us more inspiration, both Pat and myself, than to come to an airport and see people who have parked blocks and blocks away and take the time to walk down to an airport and stand all jammed in like this just to hear somebody talk about some of the affairs of the country. This proves this country's in pretty good shape when this many people care about it and come out to see it. [Cheers and applause.] I want to say, too, that I'm always proud to appear with our fellow candidates on the platform here, and I can echo completely what has been said about Bill Stratton. I've been in some States. I just came from one, Michigan, where the State government has been so bad that they're going to elect a Republican Governor so they can get business coming back in the State up there. [Cheers and applause.] And Illinois can be thankful you've had government that is so bad that all you have to do is to reelect the one you presently have - Bill Stratton. [Cheers and applause.] Also, I want to say that I share the sentiments about Sam Witwer. We are old friends, and he will make a splendid Senator for us in Washington, D.C., to work with our minority leader, Everett Dirksen, who's also from Illinois - a great team from Illinois and I recommend it highly to you here in Quincy. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I have one matter of a personal nature which I want to mention. I suppose one of my closest friends and advisers, when I came to Congress in 1947, a man who, from the standpoint of wisdom politically, had no peer in Congress, was a Congressman from this district, Sid Simpson, and I know the opportunity to be here on the platform with his widow, Edna, who served so splendidly after he passed away, is one I've been looking forward to, and I just want to pay him a tribute and her a tribute, and let's all thank them for the wonderful service they have given. [Cheers and applause.] And I can only add that you can show your appreciation by electing Paul Findley to the Congress to continue in that wonderful tradition that this district has had in representation in the House of Representatives. [Cheers and applause.] One of the problems a man running for the Presidency of the United States has when he sees a wonderful audience like this, knowing how long you have been waiting, knowing how much trouble it too you to get here, is to determine what he can talk about. You have just a little time, so much to say, and today as I have been traveling by train through southern Illinois and have seen these great crowds at the railroad stations, as we see this crowd today here at Quincy, I realize what a tremendous responsibility that the President of the United States has, what great responsibility he bears, because it is on his shoulders that rests the future of this country and the responsibility for the lives, really, of our people. There was a time when we could elect a President and these things went on in Washington. Oh, they could affect us to an extent. Our taxes might change some, and we recognize that this policy or that one could have some effect out here in Illinois. The time now, of course, has come when the President of the United States makes decisions every day, decisions that affect every home in America. I want you to know that there isn't a decision you're going to make this year on November 8 that is more important than that one. No decision is going to be more important than that one, because you're going to decide what your taxes are going to be. You're going to decide what the prices are going to be in the stores of the things you buy. You're going to decide what kind of jobs you're going to have. You're going to decide whether you're going to have jobs in which all your earnings are eaten up by inflation or whether as they continue to go up in this field you can keep them. All of you who are trying to save your money from pensions, from social security and life insurance, trying to plan for the future - you're going to find out - you're going to be able to decide - whether you're going to be able to have a future or whether you're going to see your savings melt away - not because of any fault of yours, but because irresponsible people down in Washington didn't take care of the fiscal affairs of this country and allowed the dollar to go down. You're going to decide also the future of young Americans, these little tots down here dressed in their Halloween costumes, also older ones, because if war comes, it's going to come to all of America this time, and w e must not have it come. So, I want to say to you today that I realize what these problems are. As far as the problems of the American family are concerned, I know them because I have lived through them. I recall when I was growing up how difficult it was for my mother and father to raise five boys on the income from, first a little citrus ranch, and later a country store, put us through school, get enough at the end of the month to take care of our shoes and our clothing, have a little left over for life insurance, not very much, and also I remember how difficult it was when we had much illness in my younger years and how difficult it was to pay those bills. All these things I know, and, consequently, I can assure you, as I think of these things today, that I realize that the major responsibility of the next President is never to forget the problems of the average family, to remember that they are the ones to whom he owes his duty, not to some boss who says he is running this organization or that one, not to this fellow who says he commands this many votes, or that one, and can deliver this or that, but to millions of Americans like yourselves, to farmers, to workers, to small business people, the teachers, to retired people. These are the people that I will always have in my heart, always in my mind, in the years ahead. Now, what can we do? Well, first, one thing that occurred to me is this: What is your choice? Let's consider, for example, this whole matter of what we spend in Washington. It would be mighty easy for me to come to a crowd like this and say, "Got a problem? Tell me what it is." Tell me the problem, and I'd say, "I'll take care of it. I'll spend so many billion dollars in Washington, D.C. You don't have to worry any more. I will take care of it." It's very easy to go around to every district and say, "You got a problem? Come over here. I'm going to take care of it; spend some money down in Washington." Some people have come to me and said, "Mr. Nixon, why are you not outpromising your opponent, as far as promising the amount of money you're going to spend? After all, don't you want to get elected?" I want to get elected, but also I realize that when I make a promise, I'm not going to pay it off with my money, but with yours, and it's not going to be Jack's money, either, if he's elected. It's going to be yours. [Cheers and applause.] Therefore, I say that it is my responsibility to see to it that this Government in Washington spends every dollar that it should for defense, for education, for health, for all these things that we want to produce progress and a better life, but also it's my responsibility to stand up against the special-interest group, the pressure groups and all the rest that would mean in the end that we would be robbing widows, for example, of their pensions, that we would be making it more difficult for the average person to meet his bills at the end of the month. All these things I know, and I want to tell you that I will never forget, because I've been through it, that a primary responsibility of a President of the United States is to recognize, in a sense, that he's the head of a very great family. I told a little story down the way. I remember when I was growing up at one point my older brother, who was kind of the favorite in the family - he died when I was young, but my older brother one year wanted a pony very, very much. It wasn't very expensive, actually. As I recall it only cost - not expensive by today's terms - $75 to $100 - something like that. He wanted it more than anything in the world, and it was very difficult for my mother and father to tell him he couldn't have it. It would have been very easy for them to say, "Yes; you can have it," to have given him what he wanted, but they had a little family council, and I remember what they said. They said, "You know, we could get this pony, but if we do, then we're not going to have enough money to buy the groceries, take care of all the other things we have to for the other boys, to get the shoes that my other brothers needed, and so on down the line." So, there is the responsibility of the head of the family. Sometimes you have to tell people things - they can't have this or that or the other thing - because you've got to think of the whole family, and that's the responsibility of the President of the United States. It's easier to promise and then to pay off these promises with your money, but the right thing to do is for a President to remember that he's President of all the people, and of all of the American family, and to stand up for them against any special groups, whoever they may be, throughout this country. [Cheers and applause.] So, I say: Yes, my opponent will spend more money, about $15 billion a year more, and, yes,, if he's elected it will mean that your prices will go up and your pensions are going to be worth far less. It will mean also that you're going to find taxes going up, because, my friends, looking at their platform and their promises, they cannot pay it off without taking it out of the hides of the American people, and right out of your budgets, and I know you can't stand it, and for that reason I say, yes, let's have progress, and let's have it without inflation. Let's have prosperity, but let's have it without war. And that's the second point that I want to make today. [Cheers and applause.] We've heard a lot of chatter recently about everything that's been wrong; about what's going on in the last 7½ years. America's been standing still, they say. Well, if America has been standing still, incidentally, whoever says that hasn't been looking around America, because I've been to 47 States, and there's been tremendous progress in this country. [Cheers and applause.] And then, of course, we hear a lot of talk to the effect that we need to get going again. Well, let me say this: If we want to move forward, the way to move forward is not to go and get an old jalopy that we left behind in 1953 that was no good then and is no better now even though it's got a new paint job. [Cheers and applause.] Because, you see, that's all my opponent offers. He says, "Let me go in and I'll take you back to the policies of good old Harry." We had enough of good old Harry then, and we don't want any more of him now. [Cheers and applause.] "High-tax Harry - we want to go back to him. High-price Harry" - Oh, yes, we could go back to that. My friends, just let me ask you this: All of you who are wage earners - and that's about all of us - 68 million - remember what happened to wages in the 7 years of Harry Truman. They went up, but do you remember what happened to prices? They went up 50 percent, so that at the end of 7 years you didn't have a thing left that you didn't have before. What happened to your pensions? The folks who didn't get any raise in wages? Those are the people who suffer. And I say the cruelest thing that could happen was that kind of leadership. And what else happened? Look at our foreign policy. They've been criticizing President Eisenhower for his foreign policy. Well, let me say they're the last ones who should criticize. Look at what the situation was when we took over. They had a war in Korea, a war which cost us 35,000 lives, a war which we had to go into, and the decision to go in was right at the time, but a war which was brought on by foolish policies in the State Department - and let me say this: We had enough of that kind of foolish thinking then, and we don't want any part of it now. We like the fact that President Eisenhower got us out of one war, has kept us out of others, and Cabot Lodge and I believe we can continue that kind of leadership in the years ahead for America. [Cheers and applause.] I don't tell you that it's easy. I'd like to say: Elect us. You will have no more problems in the world. Mr. Khrushchev will quit acting up. He won't be taking his shoes off and banging them on the table at the United Nations. He won't be shaking his fist in my face, as he was when I was in Moscow, insulting the United States. But he's going to go on just as he is. He's going to go on. The Communists are still going to want the world. But, my friends, we can have peace - we can have it without surrender - if we keep our strength and keep our nerve and keep our faith in ourselves. Let me just say one last thing in that respect. I am tired of people running down the United States of America. I'm tired of people saying--- [Cheers and applause.] I am tired of this talk that America has a second-rate education, second at least to the Soviet Union, that we're second in science and second in space. If these things were true, that would be one thing; but they're not true. They're not true, and they are never going to be true, unless, I might say, we begin to get a second-rate psychology. I am tired of reading in the papers, as I did the other day, just yesterday - you saw it "Senator Kennedy Predicts Recession". My friends, in that same paper, a Detroit paper, there was another headline: "Auto Sales at an Alltime High". What does that mean? Well, it means that the American people are not predicting a recession or they wouldn't be buying cars at an alltime high. And I say the American people may not have as many dollars as Mr. Kennedy, but they've got a lot more sense then he has as far as the future of this country is concerned, because - you're right - you're not going to have a recession. [Cheers and applause.] We're moving up. We're going to continue moving up. More Americans are earning more, saving more, spending more, investing more than at any time in our history, and we're going to move further from here if we continue to have faith in America and quit running her down - and that's what we're going to do if you give us that opportunity. My last point is this: I suppose when you see me up here talking - I've got a little cold, as you noticed; that's why I'm wearing this overcoat, not just because I'm from California - you say, "Well, that fellow - he obviously is going to tell us this is a mighty important election," and I have told you that, and some of you might well think: "Well, he would think that. After all, it's important to him." It is important, of course, to the individuals running, to all of us on this stage, but what happens to me, what happens to Senator Kennedy, is not what really is going to be important. What happens to America, to the cause of freedom, to the cause of peace, is vitally important. My friends, you get a sense of history when you travel, as Pat and I have, around the world. You get a sense almost of destiny when you see what I have seen - the great flash of ideas going on in the heart of Africa, in Asia, in Latin America. You get a sense that there comes a time in the history of men when great decisions have to be made, and they must be made right. I have such a sense today. I feel that it is vital that America in this period lead the free world, lead it wisely, lead it courageously, and lead it in the paths of freedom and the paths of peace and the paths of justice. I am convinced that the people of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain want peace, want freedom, and they want justice. I am convinced, too, that if America is true to its ideals the American President in the next 4 years can make a great contribution, with our people, toward that end - and it is for that reason that I ask for your support today. I do not say that Cabot Lodge and I have all the answers. I do say we've been through the fire. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We both participated in these decisions, and we both pledge to you that, with your support, we will try to be worthy of the greatest country, the greatest people, that has ever lived on the face of the earth, the American people. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Well, this is a very unexpected pleasure for Pat and me to see this crowd here. As you know, our train is stopping to switch to the Illinois Central here, and there was no rally planned. They said, "Well, there might be a few people out who knew we were going to do this," and now look at this. Say, how many of you got out of school this morning? Well, in any event, we want to tell all of you that we do appreciate your coming, giving us such a wonderful welcome as we travel through Illinois, and also we do want you to know that when we see a crowd like this, of people who came just because they wanted to, who weren't urged to or anything of that sort, we just know how tremendously interested you are in your Government and the problems that we will be confronting in the years ahead. I want to say there is nothing that gives my wife, Pat, and me more of a sense of responsibility than to see a crowd like this made up of people from all walks of life, but particularly a crowd that has some of our younger citizens in it. We naturally have a tendency to feel that way because, as you know, we have a couple of young daughters, one 12 and one 14. Incidentally, yesterday, as we were traveling through Muskegon, one teenager called out to me and he says, "I want a date with Tricia." Well, she's too young to date, we think. Of course, the 14-year-olds won't agree with that, but I think so. But, certainly, as we see all these people, we realize that the main responsibility of whoever is President is to see that our children have a chance to grow up in a world of peace, with freedom, as we have had under Dwight Eisenhower for the last 7 years. We want you to know, too, that, as we think of all these people who are here, that we recognize the fact that the problems we have in this country are difficult. I have been through them. I have been in 55 countries. I have been in Russia, in Poland, behind the Iron Curtain. I have been in India, in Afghanistan, in all of the nations you have been reading about in social studies, incidentally, down here, and I know that we're living in a changing world where a mistake, a mistake which might be perfectly well intentioned, from inexperience could plunge this Nation into war or which could also lead to surrender of principle or territory for the United States. I'm not telling you that no mistakes will be made if Cabot Lodge and I are elected. I do tell you this: We've been through the fire. We've sat opposite Khrushchev at the conference table. We've learned that the only way to keep the peace in dealing with a dictator is to let him know well in advance that America will not be pushed around any place in the world. Now, some of my friends might say, "Well, now, Mr. Nixon, how can you say that? Isn't that sort of belligerent talk? Wouldn't it be better, for example, to say - not that we won't be pushed around, but maybe we'll compromise here and there. Why don't we let Mr. Khrushchev have his part of the world, where the Poles and the Hungarians and the others live, if he will just leave us alone?" First of all, may I say, anything that he would agree to, that it wouldn't be kept, beyond that, we've got to remember that America owes to all the people of the world never to write off people who want to be free any place in the world. This is what we believe in. This is what America came into the world to preserve, and it's what we will always stand for, I can assure you. And others will say, "Now, after all, wouldn't it be better if, to avoid war, you would surrender this area or that area or abandon it to the Communists?" Let me just say this: My friends, we have learned in dealing with dictators that that kind of talk, that kind of action, doesn't lead to peace; it leads to war. I will tell why. The moment a dictator learns that you're going to turn something over, the moment that he learns that he can blackmail you, the inevitable result is that he will push you, and he'll eventually push you to the point that you have to fight. And so what do you do? You let him know, very, very soon that this kind of action won't pay. Let me put it another way: You know, I know all of you children here, like mine, see a lot of these programs - "77 Sunset Strip" - anybody seen that one? And all the others, for example, the Westerns, my girls like "Maverick" and things like that. Haven't you heard in those programs often the sheriff or the detective use the term: Crime doesn't pay? We've got to make crime so that it doesn't pay. You ask your chief of police here in this town - what's the greatest, you ask him - I don't mean when he drags you in and you see him, you know you ask him what keeps a criminal or somebody who might be a criminal from being one. You know what he'll tell you? He'll say, you've got to make him know that crime doesn't pay, and that's true in dealing between nations. The men like Khrushchev and the rest want to conquer the world. They want to do something that's wrong, because nobody should impose his rule on anybody else, and, so, the only way that we can keep him from doing the things that would result in war is to let him know in advance that international crime won't pay. How did Korea happen? Many of you know of the Korean war. I imagine in here are some mothers who lost sons in that war. Korea happened because the dictators of Communist China thought that crime might pay, that they could walk in and get Korea and that we wouldn't react. If we had let them know in advance that America was not going to be pushed around there, they would not have moved, and that's what I am talking about. And, so, I say to you, we know, my friend, Cabot Lodge, and I, what peace demands. We will never be belligerent. We're always going to be willing to go the extra mile to negotiate disarmament or anything, but we're never going to fall into the fatal error of what has got us in war in the past and that is let dictators think that we will not react. So, this is the way to peace, and I want you to know that we will have no greater obligation than to keep the peace for ourselves, for our children, and also to see to it that our children have an opportunity to grow up and have a better life even than we've had. And in that connection, every young person has a right to an education. Every person in this whole country - we want him to have a right to get a job, if he's willing to work. We also want to see that in this country of ours, that we progress in every field, but that progress is going to come, my friends, again in the American way, not in the way which says that individuals can't do things, but in the way in which Americans are inspired and are given the opportunity to do their best for their country. This is what made America. This is the kind of spirit that I hope every young person here has. Remember, every one of you can go to the top, if you want to, the top in any field that you want to. This means if you have that kind of spirit that America is going to be a country that will always progress. And, so, with that, I want to say again what a privilege it is to see you. I want to thank you for coming out, and I can assure you that Cabot Lodge and I and these candidates who have been introduced here at the State level, that we know what you want. We know the kind of government you want, and we're going to do our level best to give you the kind of government that Americans want, regardless of what your party may be. Thank you.
Thank you very much. It certainly is a wonderful inspiration to come out here at this hour and to see this great crowd here at Tuscola. I just want you to know that one of the things about campaigning that is the most fun is to come along the tracks, as we do here, and, then to see really the whole heart of America in front of you - and that's really what you are, you see. You may not know it, but you really are. I was just thinking, as I looked over this crowd when they were presenting the flowers to Pat., that in this crowd is the past of America, its present, and its future. In this crowd are the hopes of America - I mean because you here in this part of Illinois, in the heart of our country, have a very deep concern about the future of this Nation, particularly about the future of your children, and also that means, naturally, the future of America. That's why you're here. That's why you took the time and the trouble to drive down to the station here to greet us as we came in. That's why you're jammed in, sort of uncomfortable, but still listening, because you realize - you all realize - that the decision you're going to make on November 8 could be the most important decision you'll make in your lives. Now, you know, it's hard to think that could be possible, that anything, for example, could be more--- Somebody suggested that the signs come down so they could see in the back. Would you mind? Thank you. Thank you. As you stand here and as you think of the future of our country, I would like to put it in terms of what you want. You know, too often I think those of us in public life get up and we make a big speech and say, "I'm going to do this, and I'm going to do that, and I think this is what the country needs," and the like, and too often I think the person in the audience says, "Well, why doesn't he think of what I want?" And what I would really like to do - what Pat would like to do - we would like to come into your sitting rooms, for example, and spend an evening and sit there and talk to you about this country, what your deepest hopes are for America, for your future, for your children's future. I think if we could - I have been trying to guess as I look at this audience and the ones on down the track - what you would really say - and I think among the things you might say are these: you would say, first of all, as my father used to say when we were growing up - he said, "You know, I'm not among those who think we want to go back to the good old days, and I don't think we ever want to be satisfied with things as they are at present." He used to say, "You know, this is the best country in the world, but in America the reason that it is the best country in the world is that. we're never satisfied. We always want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves." That's why my mother and my dad worked pretty hard when the five of us were growing up. It was a big family. There was a lot of illness in our earlier years, but they worked hard because my dad, who didn't even get to finish the 6th grade in school because of his mother having died very early - my dad wanted to be sure that every one of us had a chance to get an education, and we did. It was difficult, but we made it, and I think if I were to talk to this audience here, to the mothers and fathers, you'd all say, "We want our youngsters to have that," and I want to say to every young person here: Sometimes, you know, when your dad is saying, or your mother, "Get that homework done"; sometimes when you think they're being rough on you; sometimes when you think life is hard, just remember they are living for you. That's all they are really thinking of, and that's all Pat and I are thinking of, believe me. We're trying to live, for you, too. We're trying to think of the things you want, to think of the better America that you want for yourselves, for your children, for everybody here. And, so, I want you to know that I stand for-and proudly stand for programs that will move this country forward, that will develop the economy of this country so that we not only have good jobs, as we have them today - they can be even more productive, better tomorrow - move it forward so that we not only have the best education in America, and we do have it today, but where you will have a chance to have an even better education, an even better education than we have had, so that every young person in America who has the ability to go to college gets the chance to go. This has got to happen in this country, and it can, and we have programs that will do it. We also have to think - and I'm speaking now to the children - you've got to think of your parents. I know that as my mother and father reached their seventies they had some difficult times because of illness, and I know that there's nothing that touches the hearts of children more than to think of their parents and the problems that they have then. That's one of the reasons why we have a program in the field of medical care for the older citizens - not one like our opponents' that wouldn't take care of 3 million of the people who don't happen to be on social security, but one that will give an opportunity for every older person in this country who wants health insurance coverage to have it., but which will require nobody to have it against his will. This is the American way to handle it. Now, I want you to know how our programs differ from those of our opponents; very simply we have faith in people. We say that the way to progress in America is not simply through turning everything over to the Government in Washington. We say the way to progress in America is to give the American people a chance to build their own future., and this is the way you want, I know. That's one of the reasons that my opponent would spend about $15 billion more a year than I would. You know, the other day one young person came up to me and said, "Mr. Nixon, I'm a little troubled." He said, "Really, the question is: who is for the people?" And he said: "How can you say you're for the people when your opponent is going to spend more money? Doesn't this prove he's more for them?" Of course, the answer is: It's not his money, but yours he's spending, you see. The answer is that I know what it means not only to try to meet a Federal budget, but I know something else. I know what it means to meet the family budget. Let me put it this way: Have you ever had a situation - I see these Nixon-Lodge girls standing here - have you had a situation where in your family one of you, for example - well, I remember - let me put it this way: I'll put it in terms of my own family. I remember when we were growing up we didn't have too much, but one year in particular - I think when I was about 10 years old - I wanted to get an automatic train, not an electric train, but just one that would wind and go around the track. It was a beautiful one that was in the store. And my other brother, one of the other of the four who were then living at that point - he wanted, of course, something else. Another one wanted a pony. Now, when it all came down to it, there wasn't enough to go around; and so, my mother and father had to make the decision. It was very hard for my father to say you couldn't have this and you couldn't have this, so that all of us could have enough to eat, so that all of us could have good clothing, so that all of us would be able to build for the future, so that we could have an education in the future. You know, the President of the United States, in a sense, is in that position. He has to tell the people sometimes that: "Look, we aren't going to spend money for this, or that, or the other thing, because all the people of this country have to have enough to get along." Whenever the President, in other words, says, "I am not going to allow the people's money to be spent for something I don't think is going to help all the people," he is more for the people than somebody who is talking the other way. That's what we've got to have in mind. Now, there is one other point I want to make. We hear a lot of talk these days. I was shocked to read in the paper yesterday that my opponent, who is a candidate for the Presidency - big screaming headlines: "Kennedy Predicts Recession." And, so, I'm sure people say, "Mr. Nixon, are we going to have a recession?" Well, believe me, I can tell you this: We won't have one certainly if we do keep faith in ourselves. And let me tell you in that very same paper that had "Kennedy Predicts Recession" - and he must not have known this - a story came out in Detroit - this was a Detroit paper - saying: "New Car Sales at Alltime High." Now, what does this mean? That's right. You know what this means? That's right. This means that the American people don't agree with Senator Kennedy. That's right. This means the American people have confidence in the future. That's why they are buying cars, and I say that Senator Kennedy couldn't have made a more despicable, irresponsible statement, because it's that kind of talk that discourages people from buying cars. Let's have faith in America. I think this running down of America - I think it's wrong, and I'm not going to do it. I'm going to stand up for America and speak up for America, as I did in Moscow and all over the world, as I think you want us to do. Am I suggesting that we have no problems? Oh, no. We've got them. We've got them at home, and we can correct them if we keep faith in ourselves and also in our principles. We also have problems abroad, but those problems can also be solved. Oh, they're not. easy, and it's going to mean we're going to have difficulties with Mr. khrushchev and Mr. Mao Tse-tung and the other Communist leaders trying to push all over the world for their aim of world domination. But, my friends, remember this: we're the strongest nation in the world, and if we're firm for the right as they are firm for the wrong America and the cause of peace and freedom, for which we stand, will prevail. We will win. We're going to win. There's no question about it. I say we will win if we have experienced leadership, and I'll tell you why experienced leadership counts. When a President is sitting there making the decisions for example - I remember the day when the President made the decision about going into Lebanon. You recall when the Communists were trying to move in in that free area and the President ordered marines in. One of the most fateful decisions in history. It was a Monday morning. I sat in his office. He got up and he paced the floor. He finally made the decision. He said, "They're going to go in." Now, if the President had made the wrong decision, we might be in war today; but, because he was wise and made the right decision, we have peace and we are developing stability in that area. We can't afford to have a President who, out of the best intentions, but because of his rashness, of his immaturity and impulsiveness that Senator Kennedy has shown, practices in making his mistakes in the White House. That's what we can't afford. Finally, I want to say this: I am delighted to be here with my fellow candidates, with Governor Stratton, with Sam Witwer, with our candidates also at the State level, and our candidate for Congress, Bill Springer. They are fine men, and if you support me I certainly want to urge you also to give them your consideration and support, because as you go to the polls, on election day - I want to say, finally, remember this - you're making the most important decision possibly you'll ever make in your lives. Make it right. Don't think just in terms of what people tell you what to do, but you think in your innermost heart; what does America need? What do you want? What do you trust? You make the decision that way and it will be best for America and best for you. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Governor Stratton and Marguerite, again all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this wonderfully enthusiastic audience here at O'Hare: Certainly the welcome you've given us is a great sendoff, what is going to be a 105-mile motorcade through the suburbs of Chicago, and if this is any indication of the enthusiasm, we're going to have one of the greatest days of campaigning in history, and we're going to carry Illinois in November. [Cheers and applause.] I am delighted, too, to be here on the platform with our candidates, all of whom you know, with Bill Stratton, my friend, the Governor, with our candidate for U.S. Senator, as you know, Sam Witwer, and I'm glad to see you know him well by your applause, and also, while I will not mention the others, I will say something about Marguerite. She's the sweetheart not only of this district, but she's the sweetheart of the Congress of the United States - and we want her back up there. [Cheers and applause.] You know, I was telling Bill up here a moment ago - I said, usually, they talk about running on somebody's coat tails. In this district, we know Marguerite is so popular - we just want to run on her skirts, that's all. [Cheers and applause.] If we do as well as Marguerite, we'll be happy. Let me say, too, the opportunity to be here is one I've been looking forward to because it has a little nostalgia involved in it. Some of you may have been at the airport the last time I was here; I don't know whether you remember, but it was the day we came in for the Chicago Convention, and that started 4 days, 4 days incidentally, in which I only got 4 hours of sleep a night, but 4 days which were certainly the most exciting of any we've ever had, and I remember the reception we had then. It was the beginning of a great 4 days, and for that reason, for those sentimental reasons, and for other reasons as well, when they were planning this schedule, I said, "Well, let's have a reception at O'Hare," and for you to come out at the airport on a busy Saturday morning to give us this welcome. I know how busy it is, how hard it is to park your cars and wait around and then have us a half-hour late because of the California weather - the sun just came out - [laughter] for you to do this touches our hearts. It gives us inspiration. We'll never forget it. I know, too, you have heard a lot of speeches in this campaign, and this is the week when you're going to hear a lot more, because we're coming down the homestretch, and as we come down the homestretch, the campaign begins to heat up. This is the critical period. This is the time when people who haven't made up their minds make up their minds. A lot of you obviously have made up your minds. [Cheers and applause.] But remember this is the time to go out and talk to the others who haven't been thinking about it too much and say, "Now, look here, these are the things we have to think about." You know, the thought that occurred to me, and I see a little youngster down here - will stand up, so I can see that sign again, please, son? He's in a Halloween costume and it says "Jack," and he's got the jack of diamonds. I don't play cards, so I don't know. I think it's the jack of diamonds "Jack don't stand a ghost of a chance," it says. [Laughter, cheers, and applause.] Now, my friend - there, turn around so they can see it. Oh, on the other side of it, it says, "Get to the seat of your troubles - vote Nixon-Lodge." [Cheers and applause.] Well, anyway, this is the Halloween season, and believe me, from the campaign of the opposition, you'd sure guess it with all the ghosts they're conjuring up. My goodness, you'd think this country was really going someplace in a hen basket. I can only say the President last night, you know, had a little opportunity to talk about that. I was saying with regard to this particular period - we hear a lot of ghost stories. You know around Halloween time we don't worry about them. We don't worry about them, because we, of course, recognize them for what they are. But right now in a political campaign when a candidate for the Presidency gets up and makes this statement or that it kind of worries us. It kind of worries us about whether or not they might be true. You've read some of the things. I am sure some of you heard President Eisenhower last night. Let's hear if you liked that speech. [Cheers and applause.] Well, incidentally, I liked it, too. I got a chance to hear him, and I've heard that some of our friends on the opposition side have been complaining about it. They said, my goodness, he was awfully hard on our opponents. Well, just let me say this - let me say this - after all the lies Harry Truman's told about me, I have the right, to tell the truth about Jack Kennedy. [Cheers and applause.] You know something, too - looking at this Hollywood - that's the land of make-believe, ghost stories, and the like - listen to some of them. America is second in education. We're second in science. We're second. Our economy is running down and the Communists are going to catch us because they're coming over our shoulders. Now, look, I know something about this. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know what they have. They are tough. They're fanatical. They're trying to catch us, but, my friends, don't sell America short. [Cheers and applause.] If you're going to - look, don't sell America short. Do you see many Americans who want to go there? There are millions of them that want to come here. Let's face up, they're - [Cheers and applause.] They're beating on the doors of the Iron Curtain of the satellite countries saying "Can't we go to America?" Now, look here, as far as the economy is concerned, as far as science and education are concerned, America is first today, and we can stay first if we don't get a national inferiority complex because of some of the silly statements that are being made in this campaign season and we're not going to get it. [Cheers and applause.] And all that I can say is this: This is competition. This is a race. I see a couple of boys down here in sweatshirts. I suppose they're out for some team. We're going to have a lot of football games today - real competition. Have you ever seen a team elect as captain a man who ran down his own team and told things that weren't true about it? Of course not. And they're not going to do it. The American team isn't going to elect as captain somebody who's said that America is second when it isn't. Listen, if you're going to win a contest, you've got to believe in yourself. You've got to believe the truth. [Cheers and applause.] Of course, it really reached a climax the other day. I was in Detroit. I picked up a paper - eight-column head - really screaming headline--said: "Kennedy Predicts Recession." Well, now, look, right under that what it said. "Auto Sales at Alltime High." [Laughter.] Now, look, my friends, you know what causes a recession - when people lose confidence in this economy, when they quit buying, when they're afraid. Well, the American people obviously aren't afraid. They're buying more new cars than ever before. That's why we find auto production is going up. Steel production is going up. Unemployment is going down, and we find that more Americans are employed today, earning more, spending more, investing more than at any time in history. Why? Because the American people believe in America. Because they don't believe we're going to have a recession and, believe me, the American people are right on this score, and my opponent is wrong. [Cheers and applause.] All I can say is this: I admit he may have more dollars than the American people, but you've got a lot more sense than he has. There's no question about that. [Cheers and applause.] Sounds like Truman out there. Well, I won't use his language, but, believe me, I'm going to take on this campaign from now on out, you can be sure of that. [Cheers and applause.] You see, we don't have to tell lies about them. All we have to do is tell the truth. Boy, that's bad enough. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let's look to the future a moment. What do we want? I've often thought, as I look over great audiences like this - I often think of what my parents wanted for us and what I wanted as a youngster, and I think that's rather typical of America. I remember my mother and father worked pretty hard. In fact, they worked until they were 70 years of age. My father died 4 years ago. My mother is still living; she's 77. They had to work hard. Five boys, is a lot of illnesses when we were growing up. But one of the things about them was this: They never complained about it. They never said to us: "Look, you're might lucky" or they never said, you want to go back to the good old days. They always said, look, in America, we always look to the future. We want a better life for our children than we have for ourselves. I've never forgotten that. That's what I believe. That's what I want. That's what Cabot Lodge and I want a chance to work for. We want a chance for these young people, for example, all of them, to go to college, if they have the ability and the opportunity, but we want to have a chance for them to go not simply as wards of the Government. The Government can help in some instances through loans and scholarships. We say that the American way to do this, the best way, is to encourage American parents to do what mine did, and probably yours did, and you know how you can do it? Let's give tag credits and tag deductions to parents who send their youngsters to schools so that they can do it. [Cheers and applause.] Take the problem of medical care for the aged. You hear a lot of argument about that, and I'm sick and tired of hearing our opponent say, oh, we don't care about it; we don't care about the old folks. We just want them to go off and die someplace in the poor folks' home. Look, they don't care, and I'll prove it. They didn't do anything in the last Congress. They put up a bill they knew wouldn't pass and they didn't get it through. They don't care and I'll prove it. They left out of their bill 3 million of the people who need it the most, people over 65. They don't care, and I'll prove it. We have a bill which does it the American way, not one that would have compulsory health insurance that would reduce the standard of medical care, that would compel millions of people who don't want it and didn't need it to have it, but, one, a bill in which every American over 65 who wanted health insurance can get it, either private or Government, but in which no one in this country is compelled to have it against his will. That's the American way of handling this problem. One other point: They say we don't care. Somebody was saying the other day: "Well, Mr. Nixon, I'll prove it to you. After all, Mr. Kennedy's willing to spend a lot more money than you are for your program." That's right, but it's not his money. It's yours. You know that. My point is this: My friends, the reason that I and Marguerite Church, for example, at the national level, and Sam Witwer will be the same way when he's down there, the reason that Bill Stratton at the State level - the reason we don't go around promising everything to everybody and to spend billions and billions of dollars is this, because we do care. Look, I remember my father buying, when we were quite young, a life insurance policy - New York Life, I recall it so well - $6,000. That was a lot of money, it seemed then, but I remember every year how tough it was to pay those premiums. That's nothing now. Everybody in this audience virtually has social security or pensions or life insurance, or all three. Now, if we adopt policies in Washington, D.C., in which we spend billions of dollars more than we take in or if we adopt policies in which we spend dollars that we don't need, you know what happens? It means that we break faith with those people. It's just as if a thief came to your door and said, "Look, I want a third of your pension, I want a third of your social security, I want a third of your life insurance" - and that happened once before. Let me tell you when it happened. In the 7 years of good old Harry. [Laughter.] In those 7 years you know what happened to the dollar? It went down 50 percent. The people who had saved all their lives, as your mothers and fathers may have saved, and then were trying to eke out a living on life insurance or pensions or social security - it was the cruelest thing of all. I say it was wrong then. I say we will not let it happen again. I say our opponent's programs would do it. Oh, they say, we're going to take it out of the rich, but they know very well they can't get it out of them. That lemon's been squeezed enough, they can't get any more out of there. And after all they can't do it when Lyndon Johnson goes down and after Mr. Kennedy says we're going to take it out of the rich oil people and Lyndon says, "Oh, no, you're not, because I'm going to see that you're not." You know, poor Jack; he has a terrible time with Lyndon. He can't have him up here, and Jack's afraid to go down there. So, I don't know what they're going to do. Well, whatever the case may be, Cabot Lodge and I speak with one voice for America, and with a sound dollar and a sound future for the future of this country. We will not break faith with the millions who have saved their money. We won't break faith with the people here trying to make ends meet - wage earners. Look, wages can go up. They went up in the Truman era. What happened? It didn't mean a thing because prices went up just as much. During the Eisenhower period, wages went up - it meant something, because we kept prices down - only a fifth as much as it went up m the Truman era. That's the kind of leadership we've got to give. So, that's why I don't go around making promises that I shouldn't keep or wouldn't keep, but that's why I have programs that will move America forward, but will move her forward not simply by saying that we'll turn over everything to the Federal Government, but we'll move her forward by saying that the way to progress in America is not through what Government does primarily, but through what 180 million Americans are encouraged to do for themselves, and that's our difference, and that's our program. [Cheers and applause.] My last point: All these things will not matter unless we have peace. I have heard this since I was very, very young. My mother, as you may know, is a Quaker - my grandmother also - and from the time I used to go to Sunday school, the little Friends Sunday school and the church, I have heard always in the Quaker sense a concern for peace. I have a concern for peace. You have a concern for peace. We also have a concern for freedom, peace without surrender, freedom without war. These issues - these are the big ones, because all these other things I've talked about won't matter if there's a war. The next war will devastate even Chicago. It will be one of the first targets, as a matter of fact. So, I say to you the major test is: Look at the two candidates. Look at the two teams. Who has the most experience? Who is likely least to make mistakes? My friends, I will give you one little story. I was there when the President made the decision on Lebanon. You've forgotten that? You remember, he sent the Marines into Lebanon and the other troops? Why ? Because if he hadn't done it, the Communists would have swept through the Middle East and war might have resulted. He had to send them in, but there was a risk involved. It had to be done right. It had to be done at that time. I remember the President pacing the floor in that oval office of the White House. He turned to me. He said, "It's got to be done." He gave the order. Now, my friends, the President has made decision after decision like that over the last 7 years. Fortunately, they've been wise decisions. That's why we've avoided war. That's why we've avoided surrender. In the next 4 years the decisions will be even more difficult, more difficult because the men in the Kremlin, the men in Peiping will continue to step up their offensives around the world, and it's essential that when the President makes a decision it must be the right one. I don't tell you today that I have all the answers. I don't tell you today that I'm not going to make mistakes, but I do tell you this: I know the men in the Kremlin. I know what they're like. I know the things that will lead to surrender and that will lead to war - and, believe me, I think that with Cabot Lodge we can avoid those mistakes, avoid them certainly because we have been through the fire. We know what it is and, more than that, we're not simply going to rest on avoiding war, keeping freedom as it is. We're going to launch a great offensive for freedom throughout the world. Why? Because we've got to do that in order to meet the counteroffensive that is launched against freedom by those who advocate slavery, and we will win; and I'll tell you why we will win. Because we're on the right side and because 180 million Americans don't think they're second rate. [Cheers and applause.] Because as I have traveled to 47 States and looked into the faces of people throughout this country, I have seen in their faces confidence in this country. I know that in the churches, in the homes, in the schools of America, there is an idealism, an idealism that makes you mighty proud to be an American, and I only hope in the years ahead, if we have your support, that I can be worthy of the American people. Thank you.
Congressman Collier, Senator Bidwell - this is your district,. of course and this wonderful crowd here at the Hillside Shopping Center. I can only say that the opportunity to see such a crowd as this in the middle of the day on Saturday is one of the great thrills of this campaign and we thank you for coming out as you have in such great numbers. [Cheers.] I'm just sorry that people in the back there can't see too well but we do appreciate the fact that they are there. And the very fact that this crowd is so big that they all can't get out in front here is an indication of what's going to happen on November 8 in this district. [Cheers.] I also want to say that I am greatly privileged to be here on the platform with my fellow candidates on our ticket - with Bill Stratton, who has been your Governor and will be your next Governor, with our candidate for the U.S. Senate, with our candidate for the House of Representatives, Harold Collier. I think with Sam Witwer and Harold Collier you've got two men who will make a fine team with Everett Dirksen down there in Washington. And then, of course, Senator Bidwell, this is your perennial district. I'm delighted to be here with you, with Charlie Carpenter, with the whole group. How about a hand for all of these candidates who are not speaking? [Cheers.] Well, we've had a busy week as you may have noted in the paper. We started last week in Pennsylvania, whistlestopping. We came to Pittsburgh the first night, then went over to Ohio for 2 days in Ohio, with a meeting in Cincinnati there. Somebody here's from Ohio. And then on up to Toledo for the second night. Then into Michigan for the next night. Last night we were over in Davenport, Iowa. Today we, of course, are finishing this tour for this week in the suburbs of Chicago. And I just want to say that we consider this to be the critical period in the campaign. This is the time when people make up their minds, those who have been on the fence. This is the time when those of you who are already for us, I say you drop what you're doing and go oust and work as you never have before because it's worth it as you work for our ticket for next November. [Cheers.] There are so many issues that I would like to talk about today but with a crowd like this, you've been waiting some time, you're standing here all jammed up together and I know that certainly the responsibility of whoever is the speaker is to bring his message quickly, bringing it in an understandable way, so that you can have an opportunity to know the issues which should decide this election. The first point I want to make is one that relates to a shopping center. As I looked at this great shopping center as we drove in here, I was thinking of one of the bedtime stories in this campaign, I say a bedtime story, or you can call it a ghost story, or a Hollywood story, or Halloween, or whatever you want to call it. And that is that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. Well, you know anybody that says America has been standing still just hasn't been traveling around America, that's all. [Cheers.] Where did that freeway come in? It wasn't here 7½ years ago. Where did this shopping center come from? It's been built in these last 7½ years. After all, those people who say America's standing still, of course, are living in a dream world. They're dreaming of getting in the White House but the American people are so smart they're not going to let them go there. [Cheers.] Then I was thinking, too, of the problems of the hundreds of thousands of people who go to this shopping center, who live in this area. I was thinking of what you had to do when you went in there and bought the groceries, the clothing, and the drugs, and all the other things that you have to do for your family. I was thinking what we in Washington have - our responsibility to you. I just want to say this. You know the easy thing for somebody running for public office to do is to run around the country and to promise this and promise that and promise something else and say we're going to take care of you. Just leave it to us. The only difficulty with that is when you make those kinds of promises you're going to spend so many billions for this and so many billions for that, it comes right out of your budget. And the point I want to make today is this: We have programs that will move America forward, move her forward in education, in science, in welfare, in all the areas that the American people want progress in this country. But we're going to move her forward not simply by trying to buy the people's votes with their own money because you need it. And whenever we can save a dollar that should not be spent in Washington, that means you can have it right here to spend as you need it right here in Illinois. [Cheers.] Let me put it another way. Everybody here has a family budget. I remember when I was growing up the problems that we had meeting the bills at the end of the month. And there were many times that my brothers - I had four of them - and I were wanting things. One year my older brother wanted a pony; another year I wanted an automatic train, and so forth. We couldn't have them because much as my mother and father would have liked to have made a promise to give us those things, they knew they had a responsibility to the whole family. And that, of course, is the responsibility of whoever is President of this country. He's got to think of a whole American family. He can't go around promising this and that and the other thing. He's got to think of the housewives trying to balance the family budget. He's got to think of the millions of people who are saving for their old age through social security, through pensions, through life insurance. And he's got to make a pledge - and I make that pledge today - that if you work and if you earn money, that that money's going to be able to buy what it costs you to earn. And we're not going to break faith with the American people by spending in Washington and raising prices in such a way that it's going to make it imp ossible for you to balance your own budgets right here at home. [Cheers.] Now I suppose somebody will say now, "Mr. Nixon, you talked about a bedtime story. How about this one? Is this one?" No, the American people have got a pretty good memory. It happened here. It happened in America. You remember 1952? You remember what happened in those previous 7 years? You'll recall that in those 7 years millions of American families got wage increases. It didn't mean a thing to them because prices went up just as much as wages did, even more in some instances. In that 7 years, and this was the cruelest part of it all millions of Americans who had saved their money - pensions, social security, life insurance - were driven right to the wall because prices in that period went up 50 percent - 50 percent in those 7 years and never forget it. My friends, I say to you today that that was a breach of faith for the American people. I say that it's a responsibility of our Government in Washington, D.C., never to break faith. I say that it's our responsibility to see to it, to always to think of the problems of people at home. And one of the reasons that I think of them is that I've been through it. I know what it means. I know what it was in our own family and I know what it is in yours. And I can assure that making these decisions, that they will be made always having in mind the fact that there are millions of Americans who, if we do the wrong. things in Washington, if we spend when it isn't necessary, that it will simply come right out of your paychecks, right out of your pensions, right out of your social security. May I just finally add in that respect, that is exactly, unfortunately, what our opponent's programs will do. They're not new. He just wants to go back to the same programs we left behind in 1953. I say we had enough of those policies then. We don't want any more of them now. We want to go forward rather than back and that's where we're going to go on November the 8th. [Cheers.] Now speaking of Halloween, boy we've really been hearing some ghost stories lately. You've been hearing about America being second rate in education. Remember that one? You've been hearing about the fact that America is second in science. Remember that? You've been hearing about the fact that American prestige, Mr. Stevenson says, is at an alltime low. That's the same thing he said back in 1956, incidentally, and 9 million Americans, by a majority of 9 million, Democrats and Republicans, said he was wrong and Eisenhower was right and they're going to say that again this year in 1960. [Cheers.] I'm sure that many of you heard the President last night. I'm sure that you heard, of course, what he had to say about some of these issues. Did you like that speech he made? [Cheers.] Well you know there have been some complaints about it I understand. Some of our friends of our opponents say, Oh the President really shouldn't have taken on Mr. Kennedy like that." All I can say is this. After all the lies Harry Truman has told about me, it's good time that President Eisenhower told the truth about Jack Kennedy. [Applause.] Also, it's time to tell the truth about the United States. It's time to speak up for America. Listen; I have been to the Soviet Union. I know we're first in education. I know that we're first in science. I know that as far as their economy is concerned they won't catch us in 7 years. I remember Khrushchev shaking his fist in my face and saying, "Mr. Nixon, we're behind you now but we're going to catch you in 7 years." He doesn't have a chance if we just stay true to the principles that built these highways, that built these shopping centers, that built the greatest country that the world has ever seen. [Cheers.] But, my friends, he will have a chance to catch us if we turn to policies that would stunt the initiative of the American people, that would say, "Oh, people can't do things." We've got to turn everything over to Washington. We don't believe in the individual. We're afraid they haven't the responsibility. Listen; it's that kind of policy that we left in 1953 and it's that kind, my friends, that would allow him to catch us and we're not going to do it. We're not going to do it because Americans know the way into the bright future. You know, they talk about these new frontiers. Just let me say this. America always is going to cross the frontiers. This is in the American tradition. We look to the future. We want a better life for our children than we've had for ourselves. But how are the frontiers of America conquered? Listen; they weren't conquered by Government. They were conquered by hardy individualistic pioneers and that's what we need in the spirit of America today. [Cheers.] And I can assure you you can't cross a new frontier with an old jalopy that we left by the side of the road in 1953 even though it does have a new paint job. We certainly don't want that one. That certainly is no way to go across them. [Cheers.] My friends, there's also another point that ought to be made. We in this country are perhaps the most forward-looking, the most progress-minded people in the world. We always want to move but the reason that we moved is that we've recognized that Government's function is to do what is necessary and do those things that people can't or won't do for themselves, but primarily to give people a chance, to give everybody a chance, to move America forward, leaving none behind. And that means all Americans must move. That's why in the field of civil rights we've got to move everybody forward because America can't afford to waste any of our young people's talents. We can't afford to waste anybody who might contribute to the greatness of America. And, also, Americans in this century I think have had, and will continue to have, the greatest dedication to peace of any people in the world. This is our nature. We've been in three wars. Have you ever stopped to think - World War I, World War II, Korea. What do we fight for? What do we get out of it? We got a lot of casualties. We spent billions of dollars - $60 billion since World War II even - helping our enemies and our friends. What do we get out of it? Not an acre of territory. Not a concession. All that Americans have fought for, all that we want today - and this is the American dream and the American ideal is for the right of peoples everywhere to have what we have: peace without surrender, freedom and its extension without war. It makes you very proud to be an American when you realize that. It makes you very proud. [Cheers.] Now how do we keep this peace? Because nothing is more important than that. I speak of these wars. They were terrible - terrible for the boys that were lost and for their loved ones at home. But, my friends, I have seen Tokyo. I have seen Vietnam. I have seen Berlin immediately after the war. I have seen London, and northern Italy. The destruction of those wars was bad enough. America has never had war brought to its shores before but in the next war every nation - even Chicago, which will be one of the first major targets. So the major responsibility of the next President - the major responsibility and the major test you must apply to him is this - has he the background, the experience, the judgment, to keep the peace without surrender, to extend freedom without war? I can only say in that respect that I would like to promise you that if I am elected, if Cabot Lodge is elected with me, that you'll have no more troubles, that the Communists will start acting like good people, that they won't continue to harass us around the world. But I don't tell you that because I know them and Cabot Lodge knows them. We've sat opposite them at the conference table. I know these ruthless, fanatical men. And they're going to continue to press for conquering the world but, you know, they're not going to make it. They're not going to force us into war provided we never make the mistake of, surrendering freedom anyplace in the world. We must never do that. [Applause.] Now let me speak about mistakes. I have seen the President make many great decisions in these last 7½ years. I remember the day he decided to go into Lebanon. I was there in the office. He paced the floor. He knew the war and peace in the balance. He knew, however, that if the Communists came in and if we didn't stop, that it would mean inevitably war and that we had to take a firm stand then. Finally, quietly, he turned to me and he said, "We're going to go in." My friends, the decision was right. It's because he's made so many right and wise decisions that we have kept the peace without surrender. But now let's turn to the future. You have two choices - myself, my opponent. No question about dedication to peace. No question about opposition to communism: The question only is who is going to be able to avoid making mistakes. And on score after score, I should like to point out, that my opponent would have done exactly the opposite from the President. He would of Quemoy and Matsu. He would as far as the summit conference is concerned when he criticized the President, in effect, by saying he could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev. He would in regard to Cuba. And I say we can't afford to have the White House as a training ground for an inexperienced man who is rash and impulsive at the present time. [Cheers.] Now I just want to keep the record straight. I know that he's said he's changed his mind on this, that now he supports the President on the Formosa Straits, that really he didn't mean this business about apologizing and regretting, and as far as Cuba is concerned, he was misunderstood. My friends, let me say this. When you're President, when you make a decision that's it. You don't get a second guess. You can't afford it. [Applause.] So I say this. At the present time the choice is clear and it's bigger than whether you're a Democrat or a Republican. This is bigger even than America. This cause is the cause of freedom for the whole world. So I say to this great audience, consider our experience, our background, but consider it not just as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans. And only then if you believe we are the men that can lead America at home into a bright new future, if you believe that we are the ones that can keep the peace without surrender, that we are the ones that can mount a great offensive for freedom, an offensive for freedom that will win a victory for freedom without war, and these are the things td which we are dedicated, then, my friends, I can ask you for your support. And on that basis I say to you finally, that looking at great crowds like this I realize the responsibility the neat President will have. Whatever you may be, Democrats, or Republicans, or independents, you have a love for this country. You wouldn't be here if you didn't have that love. And I want you to know that traveling to 47 States, talking to millions of people, I have learned that the heart of America, and the soul of America is sound. Oh, they talk about American purpose but this country in its churches, in its schools, in its homes, has an idealism which is the wonder of the world, and I only hope that I can be worthy of the American people in these years ahead. Thank you.
In New York, Thursday, Senator Kennedy said that the position of the Republican Party is that "we cannot afford medical care for the aged." Once again, Senator Kennedy is trying to mislead the American people by telling them that Republicans are opposed to medical care for the aged. This is a calculated deception. I resent it. Mr. Kennedy is putting his desire to be President ahead of the truth. Here are the facts. I have fought for and will continue to fight for a voluntary Federal-State plan of medical care for the aged - a plan under which all persons 65 and over of moderate means could receive more help than they would receive under Mr. Kennedy's plan. In addition, under his plan for a compulsory Federal health insurance program many of the wealthy would receive help and 3 million senior citizens with incomes of $2,000 or less would receive no help. Let's consider these 3 million citizens. I called attention to these forgotten people in the first debate. What was Mr. Kennedy's answer? Here it is - from the record. "Our program (the Kennedy program) was an amendment to the Kerr bill and the Kerr bill provided assistance to all those who were on social security." Now what was the Kerr bill? It provided for an increased medical care program for those on public assistance. And so, Senator Kennedy would deny these 3 million senior citizens the opportunity of protecting themselves in advance against the risks of heavy medical bills. He would say to them - "You just sit around and wait and if trouble develops we will put you on the public assistance rolls." This is the man who alleges that he has such a deep concern for our senior citizens. Mr. Kennedy sponsors a plan that discriminates in favor of the wealthy and against the poor. He sponsors a plan that the Congress has made very clear it will not approve. I favor a program that treats all of our senior citizens of modest means alike. I favor a program that will attract the support of many who oppose the Kennedy plan - a program which can and will be adopted by the Congress. I'll leave it to the people to decide as to which candidate has a genuine, deep-seated concern for our senior citizens. In order to help them make a sound decision, however, I will continue to bring Mr. Kennedy back to the pathway of truth whenever he strays from it. My opponent has reached an all-time low in talking about issues that affect the welfare of our people. He said: "The Republican Party can count on Richard M. Nixon to lead its wrecking crew" on social security. This is an out-and-out demagogic appeal - a calculated appeal designed to instill fear in the hearts of the millions of persons who are a part of our social security system. The facts are that the Eisenhower-Nixon administration has taken the lead in making 12 million additional persons eligible for social security. It has taken the lead in increasing the benefits paid by the social security system. It will continue to move in this direction. Furthermore, I will insist on fiscal policies that will insure the fact that the dollars any of you are receiving under our social security system continue to buy what they can buy today. Senator Kennedy's vast spending proposals are what those who are a part of the social security system should fear. His spending programs will cheapen the dollar. His spending programs will wreck the plans that our senior citizens have made for the future - plans that are based on a stable dollar.
Good evening my fellow Americans. Well, as you can see, I've had a rather busy day here in the suburbs of Chicago, and I want to start this broadcast by thanking all of you for listening in and giving up "Gunsmoke." As a matter of fact, my two daughters like it very much, and sometimes they entice me into seeing it also. But I think that you very properly are listening to this broadcast. I say that not only because I'm a candidate and want you to listen, but because I think the decision you're going to make this year on the Presidency is one of the most important decisions you will ever make in your life. Of course, I'm sure that many of you might react when I say that by saying, "Well, it is important to him, he's running." But I think all of you realize that now, in this decade of the sixties, what the President of the United States does affects every home, every family, every person in America, and that's the reason that I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you in your homes tonight through this broadcast. You've just seen a little bit of what our political rallies are like, and I have spoken to literally thousands of them over the period of my life and hundreds in the course of this campaign. As a matter of fact, I've been now in 47 States, from Hawaii to Maine, in the North, East, and the West, and South. I have only 3 to go to complete the 50-State circuit before November 8. And in speaking at such rallies, I have seen literally hundreds of thousands of people, perhaps even up to the millions. As I look over these people, people that you have just seen on your television screen, this thought sometimes comes into my mind: I'm sure that when the people hear me speak or Senator Kennedy speak, they wonder sometimes why we don't ask them what they want from Government, because I know when I speak I say this is what I want to do; this is what I intend to do; this is what I believe America needs, and Senator Kennedy, of course, does the same thing. But, after all, it's what you want that counts. You are the ones who must determine who will be the next President of the United States. And, so, tonight I want to reverse the procedure of the rally speech. I want to talk to you just as if I were sitting in your living room. I want to talk to you about the issues that I think the average American family are concerned with, and, as I think of those issues, I naturally go back to my own family, and I recall what my father used to say. He never used to say we wanted to go back to the good old days. He said as far as those good old days were concerned, he remembered they weren't as good as the time in which we were living then. And also he never used to tell us, there were five boys in our family, that we were pretty lucky to have it as good as we were. He always said in America, we wanted progress. We were not a standstill people. We're a go-ahead people. I think that's the spirit of all American families, just as it was the spirit of my family. And as you think that way, as you think of what you want for your family, I'm sure that first of all you want progress. You want a better life for your children than you've had for yourselves. You want better opportunities for them than you have had for yourselves. That's why we're a great country, and that's why I want to talk to that point first of all tonight. Now, on this score, I'm sure you've heard my opponent and perhaps you've heard me say we stand for progress. You've also heard us discuss the record of the administration of which I am proud to be a part. I am sure that you've heard my opponent say over and over again as he has said in our television debates that America has been standing still for the last 7½ years, and that we've got to get her going again, and you've heard me say that isn't true. America hasn't been standing still. She's been moving, but we should move her further ahead. Now, that leaves you in somewhat of a quandary, doesn't it? I say one thing; he says the other thing. Whom are you to believe? Well, you know, you don't have to believe either one of us. Just look at the record. Think of yourselves. Look at your community. You will find that three times as many schools, for example, have been built in the Eisenhower years than were built in the Truman years. That's real progress. You'll find that more hospitals have been built in the Eisenhower years than in the Truman years, the 7 years before. The same is true of highways. Look at the tremendous complexion of highways here in Illinois, around Chicago, over which I have been riding today. They weren't here 7 years ago. And then just consider your own family, your jobs. You will find that your wages have gone up more in the Eisenhower years than they did in the Truman years, but there's something else, too, that's far more important. They're real wages, because you have found that prices have been held in check so that the wage increases haven't been eaten up by price increases. All these things you know. You know, in other words, America hasn't been standing still. You can see the new factories, the shopping centers, all of those evidences of progress which indicate what I am just about now to conclude, and that is that the 8 Eisenhower years will be the years of the greatest progress in any administration in history. Those are the facts. You don't have to take my word for it. Look at your own community, your own State, and you will find that that is true. So, since the argument that we have been standing still won't hold up, we next come to the key question: Where do we go from here? Who will move America forward the most, because, while we have not been standing still, we cannot be satisfied with where we are. I often say that a record is never something to stand on, but something to build on. And, so, in your homes tonight, I suppose you're wondering: What about the future? What about our jobs? What's going to happen? Are we going to have good times or bad times? Now, I have some strong feelings on this subject and some convictions, but before I discuss them I would like to lay to rest one Halloween story that's been going around. I call it that, because it has just about as much credibility as some of the Halloween stories, the ghost stories that you hear around Halloween time. A couple of days ago when I was in Detroit, I picked up a copy of the Detroit Free Press. I have it here on my desk. I think you can read the headline, if I hold it up, on your television screen. It says: "United States Facing Slump, Kennedy Declares." Now, that must concern many Americans, when they read, the presidential candidate of one of our parties says, "United States Facing Slump." Is it true? And the answer is, Of course it isn't true. The answer is - and now I'm going to give you my version - the answer is that America, is moving forward, that unemployment went down more than usual last month and employment went up to record heights. The answer is that America will continue to move forward, continue to move forward, that is, unless we have some of our politicians talk us into a recession - and we aren't going to allow that to happen. Now, let me show you the other headline in this same paper, which gives the lie to the one I just read. You see this one at the top? "Ten Day Auto Sales Set Record." And then in the story: "An Alltime Record for Auto Sales, These Last 10 Days." Does that sound like a slump? This means, in other words, that the American people, if there is going to be a slump, haven't heard about it. You know what causes a recession is when people lose confidence, when they quit buying, when they get afraid; but when people are buying more cars than ever before in history, that means the people of the United States have faith in this country. They don't downgrade her. They don't downgrade our economy, and I say on this score the people are right and Senator Kennedy is wrong. And we're not going to have a recession. We're not going to because the American people recognize that good times are with us today and that they can be better tomorrow. So, if we're not going to have a recession, how about our programs for progress for the future? Well, here, as you might expect, the voter again is confronted with a real problem, because I say that I have programs that will produce progress, better schools and better housing for all Americans, a program of medical care for the aged, a program that will expand job opportunities for all of our people; a program in the field of civil rights that sees that all Americans move forward together, leaving none behind. My opponent, of course, has programs in these same fields, and, so, here again you have the predicament. Which one of us are you to believe? Well, first of all, I can point to the record, the record to which I referred a moment ago. When you look at the progress in the Eisenhower years; in every one of these fields that I have mentioned; you will find that we have more than in the Truman years. But some of you may say, "Well, now, just a minute. But Mr. Truman isn't running." But, yes, he is. His policies are. That's all my opponent has offered in this campaign to date - a return to the same monetary policies that led to the biggest inflation in history, a return to the same economic policies that would increase our Government operations and controls of our economy. Going back, in other words, is what he offers, going back to the good old days. But, my friends, the American people have a long memory. They remember those days. They remember that it was a period when we did not have progress, when we didn't have progress except at the cost of war or as a result of war. And, so, I say that on this score - first, our record proves that we can produce the progress that our opponents talk about. Of course, there is something else that's being said in this campaign that I want to lay to rest tonight. My opponent constantly has been saying: "Mr. Nixon and his party don't care. They don't care for the problems of the old people. They don't care about the unemployed. They don't care about the unfortunate. They just like things as they are." Now, I resent this. I resent it as an individual. I resent it, too, as the representative of a great political party. What does he mean saying. I don't care? I know what it means to be poor. I know what unemployment means to families in my community. I know what it means to meet a family budget. I remember, as far as medical care is concerned, the day and the year that my father died, in 1956. We had lots of medical bills that year. My mother had an operation the same year. Over $3,000 worth of bills. They were able to pay them out of the savings that they had, but I realize how hard it was for them - and that's one of the reasons why I have felt that we must get a program in which our citizens over the age of 65, who get catastrophic illnesses will be able to have better protection than they have at the present time. You just can't say, "Let them go off and die." You just can't say "Let them go on relief." You just can't say, "Let them wait until private health insurance will take care of them," because the problem is here. It's here and now. So, here we have a choice, and entirely different approach. My opponent says he cares for the older people. You know how he cares? He would set up a program under which he would compel all people who have social security to buy health insurance, after the age of 65, which would take effect after the age of 65. They would be compelled to take it whether they needed it or not, and this would cover, in other words, the wealthy as well as those who might need it. But, on the other hand, his program doesn't provide at all for 3 million Americans over 65 who aren't covered by social security. Some of you listening probably are in that category - no coverage at all for you - and these 3 million are the ones who probably in many cases need it the most. Now, let's look at my program. My program, instead of turning this over to the Federal Government, making it compulsory operates in the traditional American way of having the Federal Government and the State governments work together; setting up a program under which every American over 65 who needs health insurance is enabled to get it, but where he has a choice - he can buy either private health insurance, if he would prefer that, or he can get government health insurance, but where no American is compelled to have health insurance if he doesn't want it. Why is that better? Well, first, because it covers all the people over 65; and, second, because it's voluntary, and not compulsory. Why is this important? Because the moment you have a compulsory health insurance program that is the first step toward socializing the medical profession in this country. And, my friends, whatever we may think about the costs of medical care - and they're high, and they come particularly hard for families - not only older families, but younger ones as well - who have catastrophic illnesses, remember this: we've got the best medical care in the world, and the reason it is is that our medical profession is free, that they aren't working for the Federal Government and I don't want to reduce the standard of medical care. That's why I say let's continue to have a program that is voluntary. Let's continue to have one in which all people over 65 who want health insurance can get it, but none are compelled to have it against their will. One other example to comment on this whole question of who cares. The other day somebody spoke to me about this business of making promises in a campaign, and they said: "Mr. Nixon, why are you so reluctant to outpromise your opponent? After all, why wouldn't it be easier to do just what he does - go around the country and say, if there is a problem, 'We'll have the Federal Government solve it by spending billions of dollars?'" It wouldn't cost me much. After all, it's not my money, or his, but yours we would be spending; but that's the whole point of the exercise. The reason why I stand for programs that will produce progress, but cost less, about $15 billion a year less of the Federal Government's money, and that's your money, is that I know what it means when the Federal Government spends more than it takes in. I know the difficulty that literally hundreds of thousands, millions of families, are having meeting their obligations today. I know that if my opponent's programs are enacted into law, it will mean higher prices. It will mean higher taxes, or both, for the American people. I know that that would be the greatest cruelty to the people living on pensions, people who are saving for their old age, people on social security, people with life insurance, and that's virtually everybody listening to me, virtually everybody in America. You remember what happened in the Truman years, those of you on pensions, those of you who had life insurance, those of you with social security? The value of the dollar went down 50 percent, and that meant a terrible cruelty to all of you to make both ends meet. I say we must never let that happen again. That's why I am fighting in this campaign against the policies of my opponent that would spend billions of dollars unnecessarily and that also would inflate our currency, reduce the value of our dollars. This is why I said at the outset of this program you will not make a more important decision this year or maybe in your lives than you make in this election, because as you vote, you will be determining your taxes, but you also will be determining the prices of the things you buy in the stores. If you vote for my opponent, those prices are going to go up. They have to. The money has to come from some place - either taxes or prices, or both. And, so, I say in this field again that we will have progress and prosperity without .inflation, and this will mean something to every American listening to me tonight. Now, I want to turn from these domestic issues to what is an issue that I have found is even more important. I suppose some of you may wonder: How can Mr. Nixon possibly say that anything is more important than a good job, security for our old age, medical care and the like? And, of course, the answer is: Being alive is more important. I have traveled to 55 countries since I've been Vice President. I have seen the devastation that war brought to countries which felt it - World War II and Korea. America has suffered in war, but war has never come to our shores before. If there is a third war, war will come to America. It will come to Chicago. This is a major target area, and I say the major responsibility of the next President of the United States is to develop policies which will continue to do what President Eisenhower has done, and for which the American people will be eternally grateful to him for, and that is: Keep the peace. Keep it without surrender, and extend freedom - extend it throughout the world - and the two go hand in hand together. Now, who of the candidates is best qualified in this field? Naturally, you're going to expect me to say that I am. All that I am going to say is this: I do know what the problem is. For 7½ years Cabot Lodge and I have sat in the National Security Council, in the Cabinet. We have sat with the President and we have discussed with him in making the great decisions that avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. We know what peace demands. We also know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat at the conference table with him. I have had him shake his fist right under my chin and say, "We're going to catch you, Mr. Vice President. We're going to conquer the world. We will not have to do it by war, because our system is superior, and we challenge you to competition, but we will win." He meant it. I think he believes it. But, on the other hand, let us not be fainthearted about the outcome. He isn't going to catch us. He isn't going to win, not in 7 or 70 years, if we are true to the principles that have made America great. And may I just say in that connection that I think it's time for my opponent and those who support him to quit downgrading the United States of America, calling this a second-rate country in education, second in science, second in space. Now, if these things were true, that would be one thing, because one of the strengths of a free country is for the opposition to criticize those things that are wrong; but, first, they're not true, and, second, when you say the things that are wrong about the United States, let's keep in mind the things that are right. We have the best educational system in the world, and what would make it second would be for us to attempt to ape the atheistic Communist system of education. We also have the best scientists over all in the world. We aren't first in every field, but overall we're infinitely ahead, and we can stay ahead - and I have programs in education and in science that will move American forward in the years ahead. And, so, in all of these fields, don't lose your confidence in America just because of some political comments that have been made in this campaign. But, getting back to this whole issue of peace, what are my opponent's qualifications? Well, in these debates we have been having, and in this campaign you have seen three evidences where he would have disagreed with the President of the United States in the past 5 years - first on Quemoy and Matsu, where he would have drawn a line and, in effect, surrendered an area of freedom to the Communists, in the name of peace, but I believe in a way that would have brought war or surrender, or both; second, when he indicated that he thought the President could have apologized to Khrushchev for the U-2 flights; and, third, on Cuba, in our last debate, where he indicated that our policies were too little and too late in quarantining Castro and what he favored was a policy which would, in effect, have the Government of the United States give support to the rebel forces in and out of Cuba. Now, on all three of these counts, he was wrong; the President was right, but some people have said to me since, "But, Mr. Nixon, aren't you being a little hard on him? He changed his mind." And he did. He indicates now he supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu. He indicates now that he didn't really mean that the President should have apologized. He was only talking about it theoretically, and he indicates now that he didn't really mean that the Federal Government should intervene in Cuba. He was only talking about what we're already doing, as a matter of fact, giving moral support to the cause of freedom in Cuba and all around the world. But, my friends, think what would have happened if he had been President. I have seen the President make decisions. I remember the day that we went into Lebanon. I was in his office. He paced the floor. He knew what was involved. He knew that if he didn't send in the Marines, the Communists would move down through that area. He knew that if he did send them in, there was the risk of war. But he had to take the risk, because he knew the greater risk was in the other direction. He made the decision. It was the right decision. When a President makes a decision, it's for keeps. A candidate can say something and take it back, but if he becomes President and shoots from the hip, is impulsive or rash, the whole world may suffer, and that means everybody. And my question to you is this: Can we afford inexperience? Can we afford the rashness - can we afford the impulsiveness - that my opponent has indicated by these three glaring examples! I don't think so. I don't say that Cabot Lodge and I offer perfection, but I do say we have been through the fire of decision. We know what responsibility means. We know how to deal with Mr. Khrushchev, and, I assure you that, with your support, we will work for the extension of freedom, and I am confident that we can strengthen the instruments of peace - the United Nations, the Organization of American States - strengthen them so that in the years ahead the forces of peace and freedom will be so overwhelmingly strong that those who oppose peace will never dare to launch an attack which would mean war. This is what we all want. It is this kind of leadership that Cabot Lodge and I offer to America. If you believe that this is the leadership that America needs, then we ask you to work and vote for us, remembering you're working and voting not just for a man, not just for a party, but for what is best for America. Thank you very much.
Mr. Kennedy has frequently invoked the name of Franklin D. Roosevelt in this campaign. But not when it comes to farm policy. Mr. Roosevelt's first Secretary of Agriculture, Henry A. Wallace, and certainly no political ally of mine, early this week told Allan Keller of the Scripps-Howard papers that the Kennedy farm program "boils down to a rehash of proposals put forward by the leftwing of the Farmers Union in 1933." "These proposals," said Mr. Wallace, "were so fantastic and impossible of attainment without tight licensing and controls that Franklin D. Roosevelt was furious at the men backing them." Mr. Wallace went on to say that he fears Mr. Kennedy's proposals would do little to help the farmer but would add greatly to the cost of all food items. In an interview in the New York Times this week, Mr. Wallace continues his comment on the Kennedy farm plan and says it would raise the prices of food. If Mr. Kennedy will not accept the report of the career farm and food experts of the Department of Agriculture setting forth the sharp rise in food costs that his plan will lead to, maybe he will accept the testimony of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Secretary of Agriculture.
My friends we are now entering what may be - I think in history will be recorded as one of the most fateful weeks in the history of America, a fateful week because this is the week in which millions of Americans will make up their minds how they're going to vote November the 8th. This is the week that those of you who have already decided to support our ticket will be traveling through your districts and your precincts helping people get the facts that will make up their minds. I want to tell you that, whatever you're doing, whatever you've been doing, if it's a businessman who has a problem in business, if it's a lawyer, who's worrying about his law business, if it's a housewife who is concerned about getting things done, chores around the house, there is nothing more important than your taking off a week and going to work and fighting for America and what we stand for in this campaign. [Cheers and applause.] I know that many of you did have the chance to hear the President of the United States last night on television, and I know as you heard him you heard some of the reasons why this campaign is tremendously important - to you, to all of America and to the whole free world. At a time like this I cannot cover those reasons except very briefly, but there are a few points that I want to make. I want to make them directly. I want to make them in a way that I want you to make them, as you work in this campaign in this critical week before the election on November the 8th. Point 1: The most important issue, as the President indicated last night, is the issue of whether we're going to be able to do what President Eisenhower has done for 7 years, and America will be forever grateful to him, and that is to keep the peace without surrender for America and the world. [Cheers and applause.] Frankly, I was glad to hear the President speak up. I am getting tired of hearing Kennedy and the rest run down the President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Oh, I know what they say. We didn't mean Eisenhower. Yes, they think he's a popular man, but every time you turn around - they don't like what he did in Quemoy and Matsu. They criticized him for the way he handled the U-2 flight at the Paris Conference. They don't like his Cuban policy. My friends, I don't see how a President could have made so many mistakes and done so well in the field of foreign policy as President Eisenhower. [Cheers and applause.] And also I say this: When all that our opponents offer is a return to the policies, to the kind of leadership, to the kind of a gang we had around the White House in 1952 - I say we had enough of it then. We don't want any more of it now. [Cheers and applause.] And, incidentally, that's the same situation here in Illinois. You know what boss rule means with the Cook County gang up there. You don't want any part of it. That's why you're going to reelect Bill Stratton down here, and we're going to reelect him with a majority that all of the people of this State will be proud of. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I can assure you that Cabot Lodge and I will have only one obligation - that's to the people of America. As I often say, when I go through the country, I don't make promises to anybody that I'm going to be a hundred percent for what they want. I don't go up to Detroit and say to a labor group : "Look, as far as I'm concerned, your aims are my aims or my aims are your aims," whichever way you want to put it. I don't have a 100-percent voting record for labor. I don't have a 100-percent voting record for management. I don't have a 100-percent voting record for any segment of our population, and I'll tell you why. The President of this country has got to be President of all the people and not just one group of the people. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I want to say a word about this great farm machinery center of America. Rock Island is known as that around not only the United States, but around the world. You know what you build here. You know your whole economy is built around it. Let me just give you a warning. I talked last night about the farm program of my opponent. It would cut farm production in this country by as much as a third, take out a third of the acres and the production in wheat and corn and all the other items. You see what that is going to do to Rock Island? What is it going to do to employment? What it is going to do here? Why, it is going to devastate this area. It will be disastrous to it. I say we don't want managed scarcity in America; we want abundance, and that is my program of abundance on the farm, where the Government does what it ought to do, and that's to see to it that farm income holds up during this period that we get rid of the surpluses that are on the farmer's back. That's the way to handle this problem, and not to go back to a discredited farm program that even Henry Wallace said was too radical for him and Franklin Roosevelt 25 years ago. [Cheers and applause.] So, to the farmers of this area, to those interested in the economy of this area, I say we are the ones who offer the programs for progress for America, because we have faith in America. We don't think this is a second-rate country in education, second rate in science, second rate in prestige. Let's stop that kind of talk, because it isn't true, and because it hurts America abroad as well as at home. I've had enough of it, and I think the American people have had enough of it, too. [Cheers and applause.] I make another suggestion, too: I referred last night to what I thought was one of the silliest statements that has been made by our opponents to date, predicting a recession, 2 days ago. The report came out showing that new car sales were at an alltime high. Now, look, my friends, we're not going to have a recession. My opponent knows it. I know it. Let's quit being bearish about America. Let's quit running America's economy down. Let's quit poor-mouthing about America at home and abroad. I'm sick of it, and I think you are, too. Let's talk up America and [Cheers and applause.] Now, could I say just a word about the future of this countrythe kind of a future that I want to build, with your help. I'm proud of the record of my administration. I say "mine," because it's yours as well, those of you who supported the President in 1952 and 1956. I think we have made great strides. I am proud of the fact that we have built more schools, more highways, more hospitals. We've put more people on social security. We have raised the benefits more. We have done a better job in civil rights than in any administration in history. But, my friends, I also say we Americans are never satisfied, no matter how good our record is. We're going to build on it. We're going to go forward. I look at these youngsters here. I see those over there m that choir, and I say we want a better life for those young fellows than we've had for ourselves. You know, that's what my mother and father lived for. I recall when we were growing up they worked pretty hard. They had to. We did, too; we had a little country store, you know, where everybody has to work in order to stay in competition. My mother used to bake pies in the morning, all that sort of thing. Well, anyway, they lived for only one thing, and that was to see to it that their boys, their youngsters, would have a better chance in life than they have had. That's what I want. I want it for you. I want it for all of the young people of America. I also want a better life for our older citizens who work hard, save their money and then come to the retirement age and social security or pensions and the like, and I say I am against the programs of my opponent which would have the result of robbing you of your savings, robbing you of your social security, robbing you of your pensions. Why? Because by huge Government spending programs they would make the dollars you earn worthless when you started to cash them in. My friends, that's the cruelest thing that Government can do, and I say the thing to do is to have progress, but have it at the same time keeping faith with people who bet on America, who invest in America, who put their savings in America, in life insurance and social security and the like, and I will not countenance any kind of a program that will destroy the value of the millions of people who are attempting to eke out a living on their savings or their pensions and their life insurance in this country. I think you want that, too. [Cheers and applause.] We not only want a better life for these young men. We also want it to be a life of freedom. I was asked a moment ago about this choir. Would you give me the name of that, Bill, the choir that's over here? Moline - It's the Moline Boys' Choir. Right. How about a hand for them over there? [Cheers and applause.] Could I tell you a little story? As I came in with Pat, I looked over and saw a choir standing there. I remember a day just a little over a year ago, a day that some of our press men traveling with us will remember, the day we were in Warsaw. That evening the Prime Minister of that Communist country had a program, and they had a singing program, and a choir sang, a Polish boys choir. They looked just like these boys. They didn't wear red coats - and, incidentally in their hearts they weren't red, either, because the people of Poland have no use for communism. You can be sure of that. But, as I looked at that choir and heard them sing, I thought of this choir. I think of it today. My friends, the young people around the world have the same hopes, the same aspirations. They want freedom. They want a chance in life. They want to grow up in a world of peace. That day that choir sang one song, which touched our hearts. They sang "Way Down Upon the Swanee River" in English with a Polish accent. So, I think of the choir in Poland, the same age as this one. I look at this choir, and I say that we Americans can be proud today that we're the strongest nation in the world, economically, militarily, in every other way, and that we have the opportunity - it isn't a burden, but an opportunity - to lead the world not only to peace, which we will do, but to give hope to the boys and the girls, to the older people all over the world who want to be free, so that everybody in the world can grow up like these boys. That's what I believe in. This is a great period in history. It's a period of opportunity. It's a period of challenge for America. I have seen the world. I have a feeling of destiny about this period. I am convinced that if Americans are strong at home, if we have faith in our God - we get that through our churches - if we have faith in our country - we get that in our schools - if we have faith in ourselves - we get that in our homes - then America will be worthy of the challenge, and that we will not disappoint the hopes of our own children, but also of millions of children in Asia, in Africa, in Europe, all over the world, who want peace, who want freedom. My friends, what I have just said sounds very far away from Rock Island, Ill. I know it must sound that way to you. What does this have to do with our problems? Why should we be concerned with this when we're worried about how we're going to pay the bill at the end of the month, how we're going to get junior's shoes, how we're going to get that Halloween costume that the girl wanted for the party on Monday night? Let me tell you this: We Americans have always stood not only for freedom for the world. That's why we're a great people - never forget - because as we stand for freedom for the world, we insure freedom for ourselves. So, I say to you that is the opportunity that Cabot Lodge and I ask today. We have a feeling of responsibility. We don't say we have all the answers. We don't say that there aren't going to be problems. We know the enemies of freedom. They're ruthless, tough, fanatical. I have had Khrushchev shake his fist under my nose time and time again, talking about the greatness of communism and his contempt for our system, but, my friends, just as he is an apostle for evil, we must be advocates for what is good, what is right, not only here, but all over the world. That is what we ask to do. [Cheers and applause.] That is what we ask to do. We say: If you elect us, we will keep America strong at home; we will not break faith with the older people of America. We will see to it that our country progresses so that our young people will have better opportunities for education, housing, and health and all these other fields, and we will also see that America in this critical moment of history realizes her destiny by leading the peoples of the world to peace without surrender, to freedom without war. Thank you very much.
Monday is Halloween. It is a good time for America to take a look at some of the hobgoblins Mr. Kennedy has been conjuring up. One by one he has let them loose, trying to frighten America into believing what is not true; trying to scare up a few votes. But this halloweening is a failure. America does not respond to his wail of woe because America long ago learned the lesson of Halloween. And that lesson is that you can't really be scared by something that isn't. there. The latest hobgoblin Mr. Kennedy has let loose from his bag of gloom is the prediction that America is going into a recession. This is the most despicable Halloween prank of all, for if he keeps it up, he finally may have his way, and we may well have a recession - one that he talked us into by scaring people into believing they should buy nothing, invest in nothing. But Mr. Kennedy dug deep into his bag for this one, because the facts just don't support his scare story. The same Detroit paper that reported his black prediction also had a banner headline proclaiming auto sales at a record rate. Mr. Kennedy didn't mention this, nor did he mention that today there are almost 68 million jobs in America at the highest wages in history. Nor did he mention that last month employment rose more than usual and unemployment dropped more than usual. He also inevitably fails to mention that these Republican years America has enjoyed the greatest real prosperity it has ever known. Another Kennedy hobgoblin - his picture of the Republicans as people who don't care - is the oldest hobgoblin of them all, but, like all the others, it too cannot stand up to the truth. The Republican program for medical care for the aged would preserve freedom, avoid socialized medicine, and reach millions more senior citizens than would Mr. Kennedy's own proposal. The Republican program in education, unlike Mr. Kennedy's would provide funds for school construction which would enable State and local districts to use their money for raising teachers salaries, without involving the Government in the direct payment of teachers salaries which would lead toward dictation from Washington as to what is taught in our schools to our children. It is a matter of record that Republicans have extended social security and strengthened minimum wage legislation. Moreover, we care too much for people to advocate programs, as my opponent does, which would raise Federal spending by over $15 billion a year - programs so great they could be paid for, not out of miracles of economic growth, but by 180 million Americans in higher taxes and higher prices. In this spirit of Halloween, Mr. Kennedy promises you a treat, but in the end it's just a trick. A third hobgoblin has been conjured up out in space. This one is the claim that Soviet Russia is first and we are second in space exploration. Mr. Kennedy is wrong. The facts are that we have successfully launched 26 earth satellites, and 2 space probes, 13 satellites are still in orbit, 8 of which are still transmitting scientific information. The Russians have launched only six satellites and two space probes and only one satellite is still in orbit and it is not transmitting. Another Kennedy hobgoblin is the assertion that America is standing still. In the past 7½ years the American people have worked more, earned more, spent more, invested more than ever before in their history. They have built schools, highways, hospitals in unprecedented numbers. They have built dams, started water resources projects, and improved their inland waterways as never before in our history. And they have enjoyed great prosperity in peacetime - something Mr. Kennedy's party has always found it hard to achieve. The biggest hobgoblin of all is Mr. Kennedy's poor-mouthing claim that America is second rate, that its prestige is at an alltime low. Here again, Mr. Kennedy is wrong. Consider the support the United States has had on vote after vote in the United Nations; the extraordinary regard in which people around the world hold President Eisenhower; the numbers of foreign leaders who have come to our shores during his term of office. Consider also the fact that, of the many new states coming into existence during the postwar years, none chose the Communist, as against the free, form of government. And consider finally these words said only this week by a key leader from a key new country in southeast Asia: "(America) is not only the greatest country in the world, but the champion of democracy, the arsenal of freedom, and the stout defender of the United Nations. * * * We in Malaya have never had any doubt or hesitation as to which bloc to join or in deciding where Malaya would stand in the conflict of ideas. * * * This afternoon at Mount Vernon I stood in the library where * * * Washington used to spend so much of his time pondering the well-being of his people. I sensed how proud he would be today to see this country of his." So spoke the Prime Minister of Malaya. Words like these put, hobgoblins to flight.
Endowed by our Creator with an abundance of natural resources, the people of this Nation have forged an economy with the greatest productive capacity in history. Our citizens enjoy the highest standard of living ever attained in this world. The natural resources which supply this ever-expanding economy require our wisest and most vigorous public policy. At the beginning of this century, a farsighted Republican President - Theodore Roosevelt - inspired the American people as never before to support public programs leading to the wise use and judicious conservation of these raw materials. Today, if the free world is to have the instruments necessary to preserve liberty, and if we are to continue to achieve the growth the United States should have, we must renew our determination to manage, use, and improve our natural heritage for the benefit of future generations as well as our own. "God has lent us the earth for our life," John Ruskin wrote in the century past. "It is a great entail. It belongs as much to those who come after us as to us, and we have no right, by anything we do or neglect, to involve them in any unnecessary penalties, or to deprive them of the benefit which was in our power to bequeath." Those words stand true today. A wise conservation policy cannot rest simply on the fear that the population of the world - or of the United States - will outstrip the earth's capacity to produce. Science and technology have already increased the productivity of our land and resources far beyond the demands now made on them, and far beyond the imaginings of our forefathers. A wise policy, therefore, includes, along with preservation and orderly development, basic and applied research, conducted at a tempo which will insure against material shortages in our future. Following such wise policies in the 1960's, we shall meet many challenges here at home: The challenge to avoid waste; to assure that we do not become a have-not nation; to better the living of our greatly growing number of people. And broadening such policies, we shall meet challenges - many of them new-imposed by our international role. That role intensifies the demands on our own resources. And it impels us to seek means to put vast undeveloped resources in Latin America, Africa, and Asia to use in the free world's battle against poverty - one of the major battles in the great global struggle in which we are engaged.  WATER RESOURCES In 1930, our per capita water requirements amounted to 530 gallons daily. Today we need twice as much. And by 1976, we shall need twice as much again. The problem of assuring our growing country this swelling flood of fresh water is a problem local, regional, and national. Its solution requires an incessant and vigorous effort, undertaken by organizations both non-Federal and Federal, to impound water, irrigate land, control floods, and find an economical way to convert saline and brackish water to fresh.  WATER CONSERVATION About one thing let us be clear at the outset: The United States must never suffer a crippling water shortage. The only way to avert this possibility is to continue and expand what the United States now has underway - the greatest water conservation program in our history. At a cost now in excess of $1 billion annually, the Eisenhower-Nixon administration has set a precedent-breaking pace in the authorization, construction, and development of water resources projects. Never before have so many such projects been launched. Since 1953, 30 reclamation projects have been completed - an average of 4 per year - 53 new projects or units have been authorized, and construction has been started on 49 new or supplementary projects. In the half century before 1953, only 87 projects were completed - fewer than 2 a year. Of all the money made available for Federal reclamation activities since Theodore Roosevelt signed the Reclamation Act in 1902, $1 in every $3 has been appropriated during the Eisenhower-Nixon administration. And these figures do not include the hundreds of flood control projects also initiated by this administration. We have built this record of progress in the face of the failure of the opposition-controlled Congress to meet the appropriation figures in the President's annual budgets: In 5 out of the past 6 years, the Congress appropriated for reclamation less than he requested. These facts are part of the refutation of the opposition's charge that the Republican water resource development program is one of "no new starts." More of the refutation is in these facts: The phrase "no new starts" originated in 1947 with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget during the Truman administration, which launched that policy. In the 5 fiscal years, 1949-53, the Truman administration recommended the construction of only six new reclamation projects. In 3 of those years (1949-51), the administration recommended only one new start each year; in 1 year (1953) , it recommended none. In all, the Truman administration had a total of 38 new starts, 18 requested by the administration, 20 added by the Congress. By contrast, in 8 years the Eisenhower administration has had 49 new starts, 25 requested by the administration and 24 added by the Congress. The record is clear that the Eisenhower administration has actually initiated construction of 29 percent more projects than the Truman administration and has requested 39 percent more new starts than the Truman administration. The future water resource development of the United States must include a host of varied programs and policies. Along with major downstream flood control projects, increased emphasis should be given to programs of Federal assistance for small reclamation and watershed flood control projects initiated and constructed by non-Federal local districts. There must be continued support of the historic policy of Congress preserving the integrity of State water right laws. River basin or watershed committees should coordinate the investigation, planning, and development of water conservation projects wherever practicable, these projects should incorporate facilities for predictable future needs. And basin funds, which will assure provision for investigation and full beneficial development of each river from its source to the sea, should be authorized by Congress.  INLAND WATERWAYS Since 1952, this Nation has maintained a rate of growth in inland waterway commerce which is without precedent in our history. The St. Lawrence Seaway - the greatest inland waterway in the world, which extends 2,342 miles into the heart of the North American Continent - stands as a monument to international cooperation and Republican determination after decades of frustrated effort. The Corps of Engineers estimates that about $8 billion would be required for all authorized and potential waterways. In proceeding to develop our waterways, uneconomic waterways should be deactivated, and, if possible, used for public recreation. To meet the estimated increased requirements for freight transportation, a definite schedule of priorities for the potential new waterways should be maintain, and modernization of existing waterways should proceed rapidly.  EVAPORATION CONTROL Ground water and water once impounded can still be lost in astonishing quantities through evaporation or consumption by waterloving shrubs and weeds called phreatophytes. The encouraging results of experiments already made indicate that research on evaporation and phreatophyte control should be intensified.  POLLUTION CONTROL Today our communities and industries are producing increasing and more complex wastes which are making water courses filthy and unusable. A national program to prevent such pollution requires improved understanding of the types of wastes reaching our streams, and improved methods for their treatment. It requires more aggressive enforcement action to curb those communities and industries that are despoiling our rivers and other water courses. It requires public support of officials who are making sincere efforts to abate water pollution. It requires funds to build municipal waste treatment works, and expenditures by industry to cope with industrial wastes. Recognizing the need for an effective attack on water pollution, the President in 1955 recommended a stronger and more permanent law than the Taft-Hartley Act of 1948. The administration's 1955 recommendations called for (1) the strengthening of Federal support of State water pollution control programs; (2) the authority to develop water quality standards to be applied to the interstate streams; (3) the broadening of enforcement authority of the Federal Government; (4) the intensifying of research on technical problems of stream pollution and its abatement. In May of 1956 the Congress finally passed, and the President approved, Public Law 660. Remarkable progress has been made since that time in expanding our program to clean up the waters of America. State water pollution control programs have been substantially expanded and strengthened by Federal grants and technical assistance and training. Enforcement actions to prevent pollution of interstate waterways have been used in a dozen serious cases of interstate pollution. Already, conferences and public hearings on an interstate level have resulted in cleaning up more than 4,000 miles of streams. Action has been initiated to abate pollution from Federal installations. Our research efforts, in universities and colleges, in industrial laboratories, and at Federal and State Government installations, have been expanded. Incentive grants for the construction of municipal sewage treatment plants have more than doubled the annual rate of such construction in the 5 years prior to 1956, when incentive funds were not available. For every dollar of Federal incentive money spent, $5 of local and State money has been put into sewage treatment plant construction since 1956. Though much has been accomplished, much more remains to be done. The First National Conference on Water Pollution, scheduled to be held in December, will focus attention on the critical problem of assuring clean water for all purposes. It is clear now, however, that amendments to the existing Water Pollution Control Act should be sought so that its provisions can be extended to apply to all navigable waters. When clearly needed, Federal assistance should be made available to local communities for pollution treatment facilities. Additionally, consideration should be given to measures that will encourage industries to follow good waste treatment practices. With the increase in the complexity of wastes reaching our surface and ground waters, we must continue to seek out new and improved and effective waste treatment processes. Our increased requirements for water emphasize the urgent need to increase support for basic research and development. There is a related subject. The greater the number of our automobiles and buses and smokestacks, the greater the amount of pollution of the only element more important to human life than water - the air we breathe. Working with all interested agencies, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare should continue its efforts to acquire new knowledge and develop new techniques for prevention and control of air pollution. The Surgeon General of the U.S. Public Health Service should be given authority to investigate and hold hearings on air pollution problems and to take action to abate pollution nuisances of interstate significance. Recommendations along these lines have been made to the Congress by the administration and should be acted upon at an early date. In the past 8 years, the Eisenhower-Nixon administration, through research and experimentation, has reduced sevenfold the cost of saline water conversion. Even at the present cost of approximately $1 per thousand gallons, thousands of communities will soon find it cheaper to convert salt water than to transport fresh water from distant sources. We shall continue to urge approval of legislation to expand this program - legislation not enacted by the last Congress despite the fact that its enactment was recommended by the administration and had broad bipartisan support in the Congress. The goal before us is to discover a process so efficient that we may not only meet our own needs at a reasonable cost, but also help make the arid lands of the world bloom. The development of a low-cost method of converting sea water to fresh could help solve economic problems in many countries, such as Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Israel, and Brazil. Unfortunately, recent Congresses have failed to make available all the funds requested by President Eisenhower for this purpose. The times demand that the saline water program be accelerated. Toward this end, the experimental portion of the saline water program should be expanded, if necessary through the construction of a Federal laboratory for this purpose.  ELECTRIC POWER In considering electric power, let us be clear once again about a basic pledge: Neither the United States nor any region of the United States must ever suffer, as it did under the Truman administration, a crippling shortage of electric power. Since 1953, this Nation's electric power generating capacity has nearly doubled. Through cooperative efforts, "brownouts" have been eliminated. This achievement is the direct result of the elimination of stifling and needless controls. Imposed by past Democratic administrations, Federal preemption of water power sites prevented nonFederal public and publicly regulated utilities from responding to local demand; material controls made action doubly impossible. But since 1953, the Federal Power Commission has received application for non-Federal hydroelectric projects with a total capacity of more than 33 million kilowatts - an amount larger than in any comparable period in our history. As a measure of our progress in the installation of power facilities, we might remember that the Soviet Union today has the installed capacity which we had in 1942, and that if it continues at its recent rate of growth, by 1975 it will have the capacity we had in 1955. Projections for electric energy demand show that we shall probably need three times as much capacity in 1980 as we have now. All segments of the industry and Government will need to work as a team to meet this increase. Furthermore, by cooperative effort, such as the Northwest power pool, we should assure the fullest possible use of the capabilities of all elements of the power industry - public, private, and Federal. And no power capacity should be wasted through failure to use facilities. Federal hydropower activities are a direct result of water control and conservation construction. Energy generated as a byproduct of storage dams and reservoirs is marketed to help repay the Federal investment in water resource development. As a general rule, non-Federal agencies should construct steamplants. The Federal Government should, however, vigorously proceed to construct multipurpose projects such as the great upper Colorado storage project. And we should continue to stimulate non-Federal power agencies to expand at their current unprecedented rate. Because an electric utility - public or private - is essentially a monopoly as a matter of economic necessity, privately owned utilities should be strictly regulated in the public interest. Publicly owned utilities should continue to be managed so as to be directly responsible to the people they serve. Neither public nor private utilities should be allowed to become mere tools for the benefit of a managerial class. It is at the very root of our Federal system that the States and local communities have the full authority to determine whether their utilities are to be publicly or privately owned and operated. When Federal officials use their positions to attempt to control local decisions on those questions, they violate the spirit of the Constitution. Furthermore, American experience suggests that those closest to a problem are most likely to find a successful solution.  ATOMIC ENERGY In the field of atomic energy, we shall support the teamwork principle, which has already led the world to major achievements. Republican efforts have led to the establishment of a 10-year program to continue the U.S. leadership in atomic power. Three civilian stationary nuclear powerplants are already in operation. Eight more are under construction, and another eight are planned for completion by 1965. All these plants together will have a generating capacity of more than 1.5 million kilowatts. Research and development must continue to receive strong emphasis. The Rural Electrification Administration has enabled local REA-financed systems to meet the growing demand for electric and telephone service. For such service, the REA has my wholehearted support. The REA was conceived as a legitimate instrument of government to extend electrical service to rural areas. It has raised the standard of living throughout our farm lands by virtue of the fact that an REA cooperative must accept a utility responsibility for potential consumers in its area without regard for profit - a responsibility the Federal Government should not have and one private industry cannot be compelled to accept. It should continue to make loans - more than onethird of the total have been made since 1953 - at interest rates which take into consideration the REA's acceptance of this responsibility - a service which expands our markets for electrical appliances, increases the national standard of living, and makes our farms the envy of the world.  PREFERENCE TO PUBLIC AGENCIES Another Federal policy, that of preference to Federal and public agencies in the disposal of federally generated power, has been vigorously followed by the present administration. This policy gives to Federal taxpayers the first benefit of Federal installations. We are opposed to repealing this preference or to eroding it away through administrative action.  EXOTIC POWER We commend the electric energy industry for its continuing research in all the "exotic" power fields. Already it is possible to produce magnetohydrodynamic energy and to produce electricity from chemical or heat conversion. The Federal Government. should, wherever necessary, stimulate and assist basic research in such fields to develop new sources of energy.  SOIL CONSERVATION AND LAND MANAGEMENT: MULTIPLE USE The needs of grazing, timber, water, mining, and industrial activities should be met through multiple use of the public domain wherever consistent with the highest use of such lands. Project Twenty-Twelve, the Bureau of Land Management's long-range program for administering public lands, recognizes the growing value and importance of the remaining unreserved public domain. In following that program, priority should be given to classification and competitive sale of those limited amounts of land necessary to meet urban and industrial expansion in the West. To public lands, there must be adequate public access. In addition, land exchange authorities should be used, consistent with antispeculation safeguards, to consolidate public land holdings. Protection of our public domain requires continuous range improvement measures - detention clams, range seeding, brush control and adequate fire protection. The increased use of our land resources demands that these assets be rehabilitated and kept in top condition. A depleted range is as useless as a rundown battery, but both are capable of being restored for sustained use. Primarily, soil and moisture programs should assure preparation for variable use.  SOIL CONSERVATION The management of our soils and that of our waters are, basically, inseparable. It is for this reason that emphasis has been given to watershed protection, and assistance and encouragement to the Nation's farmers and conservation agencies to use and maintain our soils in a manner so as to improve them and, at the same time, conserve our water resources. The successful Great Plains conservation program should be extended to the whole Nation. This unique program has accelerated soil, water and grassland research. It has combined cost sharing and technical assistance to help farmers and landowners adjust to climatic hazards. And it has strengthened the entire economy of the Nation. The program answers President Eisenhower's demand that a direct attack be made on the problems of the Great Plains. If we follow it, we shall not permit the "Dust Bowl" to return. We must not permit any area of this Nation to suffer because of the lack of a long-range permanent solution to conservation problems. Above all, the Soil Conservation Service, which gives technical assistance to stimulate good soil conservation practices, must be given increased recognition for its vital role in America's future. here should be no pennypinching in the effort to preserve our soils, as well as our waters, forests and other basic natural resources. The principle of soil conservation does not recognize differences in ownership. The key to sound soil conservation lies in balanced and planned action on a watershed basis which applies equally to Government and private lands. Higher priorities have been assigned to private lands in getting soil and moisture programs underway. The time has come to step up our efforts in caring for Government lands in order to achieve the necessary balance. A job of this kind cannot be piecemeal.  COORDINATION OF RESOURCE EFFORTS The advancement of conservation in the United States has given responsibilities to several agencies of the Federal Government. Coordination of their efforts is possible under the existing arrangement, as exemplified by recent joint conservation policy statements of the Secretaries of Defense and Interior. What is lacking is a measure which would not only permit, but require, consistent policies and programs. We should consider establishing a National Council on Resources and Conservation to assure coordinated consideration of national programs directed toward the wise conservation and development of our natural resources. Patterned after the National Security Council, the NCRC should be composed of the Secretaries of Agriculture, Defense, Health, Education, and Welfare, and Interior. Its permanent chairman would be the Secretary of the Interior. This Council would eliminate one of the fundamental weaknesses of our national resources policy machinery. All conservation policies - those affecting our soils, water, timber, minerals, wildlife, fisheries, and so forth - would be related to one another by coordinated action. The proper balance between conservation, development and use will be maintained by combining coordination - responsibility with the authority each member of the NCRC has in his individual capacity. The NCRC will be responsible for developing uniform policies for protecting our natural resources and assuring their replenishment. It will be an agency not only of coordination but of action. Its membership will assure immediately institution of coordinated development programs. Furthermore, the NCRC would meet at least once monthly and put out periodic reports on its progress. Basic to the operation of the NCRC would be the pooling of talent and effort to collect, analyze and interpret the basic data necessary to program for future resource development activities. The NCRC would prepare and present a comprehensive natural resources budgetary plan; information and programing detailed by basin and watershed committees would be correlated, and procedures and policies followed by such committees should be simplified through coordinated NCRC efforts. In addition, a permanent technical staff of the NCRC could explore means to eliminate inconsistencies or conflicts in Federal resource policies and initiate or prepare staff studies on suggestions for sound resource programs. One such suggestion, recently made by the League of Women Voters, is that a "development loan fund" be established to encourage the establishment of State or interstate agencies to undertake river basin development. Such a fund could stimulate local and regional initiative. It could also materially reduce interstate tension by fostering cooperation instead of conflict. After studying its impact upon going programs, the Council might well recommend to the President the creation of such a fund. One significant distinction should be noted: Democrats in the Congress have suggested a Presidential Advisory Council be established - an additional level of bureaucracy, without authority or responsibility, to superimpose itself in an advisory capacity upon the present administrative apparatus. We need coordination, not the creation of a powerless new agency. We need to simplify existing review procedures, not complicate them by an advisory board without authority or responsibility.  RECREATION The recreation potential of all public lands should be developed, where possible, under cooperative agreement with non-Federal recreation agencies. A current inventory of public lands available for recreation development will be maintained. To this end, a commission of recognized conservation, resources and land management experts should be established to inventory Federal lands now set aside for public purposes. This commission's studies should determine the recreation reserve lands necessary to meet the Nation's future needs for parks, seashores, wildlife, and other recreational areas. While some people attack the increased affluence of our society, it is a great satisfaction to realize that Americans in greater numbers than ever before today have the opportunity to live, travel, and enjoy recreation out of doors. Through hunting, fishing, boating, hiking, camping, bird watching, and nature study, millions upon increasing millions of Americans thus deepen their love of country and of the God-given magnificence of the expanses and scenic wonders of our section of this continent. These recreation enthusiasts more than pay their way in our economy - through increased demands for equipment, boats, station wagons, and tourist accommodations. Recreation expenditures amount to well over $43 billion annually. Increased income and more leisure time will make the demands for recreational areas soar even more. Here again, the only solution is through the effective teamwork of all echelons of government. The Federal Government must continue to make greater provision for recreational opportunities on public domain and forest lands. We have already established long-range programs for recreational development of our national parks. Funds spent on rehabilitating the national parks during the first 4 years of "Mission 66" exceeded the amounts spent by Democratic administrations for 13 years prior to 1953. But more action is needed. We must act quickly to save our seashore areas of national significance. Additional national park units, such as the Prairie National Park, should be added to the system. Despite repeated urging by the administration, the Democratic-controlled Congress refused to add to our national park system new seashore areas at Cape Cod, Mass., Padre Island, Tex., Oregon Dunes, Oreg., and Point Reyes, Calif. Prolonged hearings led to the adoption of recommendations to protect the valid interests of local agencies and preserve the seashore areas from destruction through commercialization. Yet because the Democrats in control of Congress did not act, we must go through the whole process once again. This unwarranted delay costs the taxpayers money because of increases in property values. And it prevents action to preserve this heritage for future generations. Recreation opportunities should be integrated wherever possible with water resource developments, with the assurance of clean water to provide full enjoyment of these facilities. Toward this end, I shall recommend to the Congress the enactment of a Recreation Coordination Act. One of its principal provisions will require adequate consideration of recreation in the acquisition of land for water development projects. All agencies of this administration have endorsed the principle of wilderness preservation. To this principle, sound and effective legislation should give effect. Recognizing that our people's demands on our scenic and historical areas will surely increase in the years to come, we have pledged to sponsor a new program, "Mission 76". This 15-year program will offer technical cooperation and grants to stimulate establishment and rehabilitation of local, State and regional park and recreational facilities; it is program necessary to prevent the destruction of existing facilities through overuse.  NATIONAL FORESTS The U.S. Forest Service has moved rapidly to meet changing demands for forest facilities. "Operation Outdoors" recognizes the legitimate demands of the public for wildlife, recreation, and wilderness uses in national forests in addition to timber production and watershed control. Dependable fire protection through fire presuppression and control work should be extended to all public forest lands. All agencies, public and private, must help to reduce the hazards caused by fire, pestilence and disease. Increased research on the use of pesticides is necessary, however, and pest control methods should be thoroughly tested and understood before widespread use. Our forests, public and private, are capable of providing sustained public benefits - recreation, supplies of forest products, and essential employment. Measures taken in the years to come will assure a continued favorable balance between the growth and cutting of America's forests. We must continue high quality forestry conservation to sustain maximum use of our timber resources without depletion.  FISH AND WILDLIFE Following enactment of the administration-sponsored Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, the Fish and Wildlife Service has acquired increased stature. Competent, well-trained, career Bureau Chiefs now direct the efforts of the Bureaus of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife and Commercial Fisheries. Long-range plans, now being reviewed by national conservation organizations, should be followed to completion under this new management pattern. These long-range programs will be vigorously implemented if we have control of the new administration. The manner in which we have pursued our past pledges in these fields was demonstrated vividly in Salt Lake City recently when 15 of the leading national conservation organizations bestowed upon the Secretary of the Interior, Fred A. Seaton, a distinguished conservation award. I am informed that Secretary Seaton is the first Cabinet officer ever given such recognition. This action represents, to me, widespread public support of Fred Seaton's actions which have led to the establishment of 23 new national wildlife refuge areas, stopped the diversion of duck stamp funds, and assured that all revenues from duck stamps are earmarked for wildlife habitat acquisition, and brought swift enactment of sweeping amendments to the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, which assure consideration of fish and wildlife improvement measures at the planning stage of water resource projects. Wetland preservation, including the acquisition of key areas by Federal or State Governments, is mandatory. To meet the critical need for wetland areas, a revolving loan fund should be established to be repaid by future duck stamp collections, and from revenues made available to States for habitat acquisition. Also, we should seek congressional authorization to secure from private landowners wildlife management easements to provide encouragement to maintain wetlands. Much more could be done through coordinating soil bank activities with conservation and recreation objectives. Sports fish have suffered similar losses of habitat. Maintenance of minimum conservation pools in reservoirs and minimum streamflows in connection with Federal water projects would increase their chances for survival. Further, we continue to urge recognition by the States of fish, wildlife, and recreation management and conservation as beneficial uses of water. Federal activities in the future must include increased research and means to preserve traditionally important spawning areas. Primary assistance will be provided State and commercial fish hatcheries through greater emphasis on Federal research program on fish disease, nutrition, and genetics.  COMMERCIAL FISHERIES The United States has consistently produced more fish than any other country in the world. Our fishing industry produced a total catch of 5.1 billion pounds of fish in 1959, slightly less than the alltime record catch in 1956 of 5.25 billion pounds. Valued at $342 million to the fisherman, when processed and delivered, the 1959 catch sold to the consumer for over $1 billion. Almost 2 million people are directly dependent upon our fishing industry. We are also the world's largest importer of fishery products, the equivalent of over 2.5 billion pounds of fish and shellfish annually. We also export about. 40 million pounds of fishery products. Recent legislation signed by President will provide aid to depressed segments of the fishing industry to rebuild fishing fleets (which our laws require be constructed in the United States). We provide Federal assistance through loans for fishing vessel and gear repair where private loans are not available on a reasonable basis. Research activities are opening new vistas for the commercial fishing industry. The increasing use of fishery products in medicines may have a substantial effect upon our daily lives. Increased Federal research in oceanography, biology and the improvement of marketing and production is part of the long-range commercial fisheries program. Our objective must be to conserve this resource and strengthen our commercial fishing industry. Our export market should be stimulated, perhaps through the establishment of foreign market development programs. And we should investigate the possibility of establishing a link between our fishermen and research workers similar to the agricultural extension service, to aid fishermen in adapting to new methods and techniques. The fishery attaché program, thus far successful in Mexico and Japan, should be extended to other important fishing nations. Our tariff structure for fishery products, based upon 1930 trade patterns, needs to be studied in relation to present trade patterns, which are substantially different from those existing 30 years ago. During the past 30 years, economic and technological changes have occurred which have altered the effectiveness of established duties. In addition, many imported fishery products with which our domestic industry must compete are produced at lower costs; many countries provide financial assistance in the form of subsidization, loans, and other aids. A study of the current tariff structure should be made to provide for modifications where necessary and to remedy disparities in classification and duties.  MINERALS Our minerals industries provide this country's basic supplies for national security. Recent speeches of Democrats in the Congress indicate their continued adherence to the philosophy of the Truman administration, which held our minerals and oil and gas deposits would not be "washed or wasted away by neglect," and advocated "saving" them in the ground. The task force on economic opportunity and progress of the Republican committee on program and progress met this assertion head on in its report last year:  While some of our needs can be met from abroad, national security requires the maximum practical effort to develop and wisely utilize our own resources. This is not simply a matter of having wealth in the ground. Even when some commodities are temporarily in excess supply - as has lately been the case with a number of domestic minerals - management and production organization must be kept at levels that will allow exploration and orderly development to be carried out. This is especially true since technical change brings about a continuous realinement of the need for particular metals and minerals. We need to stimulate our mining industries to keep pace with the space age. Depletion allowances are not only a longstanding element in mineral economics; they have demonstrated their value as a reasonable incentive for the development of the Nation's natural mineral resources. They should be maintained at present levels. In a few select instances, such as those of oil, shale, and coal to be used for synthetic liquid fuels, depletion allowances might be increased to encourage development of new minerals industries. In addition, the existing limitation on expensing exploration costs should be removed and replaced with a new limitation of $100,000 per year per taxpayer without any other restrictions. The expansion of research activity will promote the increased use of coal and improve the coal industry's competitive position. The office of coal research, established under this administration, will do much, through a crash program for applied research, to help the industry drive forward. As an effective means to assure full conservation and development of the latent resources of the country, as well as assisting State and local municipalities in their development programs, the Federal program of topographic and geologic mapping should be substantially accelerated. Our strategic and critical stockpiles should be maintained and their objective constantly reviewed to assure our ability to meet national security requirements. To relieve the uncertainty of domestic mineral producers, stemming from the possibility of disposals from Government stocks of minerals and metals, consideration should be given to delegating to the Secretary of the Interior the authority to control all such disposals, and a means established for consultation with the affected producing industries. We must increase the effort through international consultation to develop fuller awareness of the world supply and demand balance for mineral raw minerals. In this way we could contribute to the increased stability of world minerals prices at satisfactory levels for the health of producing industries in the United States as well as free nations abroad. Twice in the past 4 years, long-range minerals programs proposed by the administration were rejected by the Congress. We have, however, initiated a new minerals exploration program and increased the ability of small mines to use existing exploration expense deductions; much needs to be done to dovetail this program with the research activities necessary to the maintenance of healthy domestic mineral industries.  SUMMARY We believe impartial historians will recognize the decade of the fifties as one which sustained conservation and resources development achievements on a scale unmatched in our history. Our objective for the sixties is intensified conservation and management for the better use of each of our resources. We must provide the support and incentives needed to meet the demands of the future. These demands will come from within - from our exploding population, which in its thrust toward higher and higher economic plateaus will call for more and more of the treasures of earth and river and sea. And these demands will come from without - from the presence of an implacable foreign foe and from the need of the free world for an America, which, supremely strong in every way, unremittingly increase its strength in every way, year after year after year. As these demands far surpass any which this country has ever known, in meeting them we in our time can proceed toward victories which would have seemed incredible to past generations.
I want to say there are many issues of concern to our people today as we go into the final week of this campaign. I hope that many of you had the chance to hear President Eisenhower discuss those issues last night. [Cheers and applause.] I heard, incidentally, that some of our opponents' friends were complaining that he'd taken on Mr. Kennedy. All that I can say is: After the lies Harry Truman's told about me, it's about time President Eisenhower told the truth about Senator Kennedy. [Cheers and applause.] And may I also add: In this campaign, as he indicated in his speech last night, the future not only of America is involved, but the future of the whole world, because the man who is elected President of this country will lead America, and America must lead the world, and for that reason I would like to begin today by talking about America's strength at home, and then by talking about how that strength at home can help America realize its destiny as the leader of the forces of freedom and peace throughout the world. Here at home the most important thing that we have to recognize is the lesson of American history. This is the greatest country in the world, as the President said last night. This is --- [Cheers and applause.] This is the strongest country in the world, and, my friends, how did it get that way? I want to tell you how. It got that way not by a bunch of American citizens considering themselves incapable of going out and doing their own jobs, creating their own business, building this country. It got that way not by turning over everything to the Federal Government in Washington, D.C., to do. America is a great country today not because of what Government has done, but because of what 180 million Americans have been allowed and encouraged to do for themselves. [Cheers and applause.] And, my friends, that is why I will fight for the balance of this campaign, and I will fight for the rest of my public life against those schemes, however good they might sound, that would take responsibility from people and send all of our dollars down to Washington to let a bunch of bureaucrats run the people of the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] That's why I will fight against those schemes, those schemes that would weaken America. Oh, they say they would strengthen it. But they would weaken America, by having our education, in effect, controlled from Washington, D.C., by turning over our health programs to federalization, federalization which would bring first the end of the great medical service that we have in this country. My friends, when we talk about the future of America, remember: The easy thing whenever you have a problem is for a public official to come in and say, "Well, that's good. You have a problem. I'll make a promise to you. I'll take care of it." But, you know, there's a catch to it. You know that "trick or treat" you do around Halloween time? Well, this time there's a trick, but there's no treat. [Cheers and applause.] But what happens? Whenever somebody comes in and says, "Look, I'll take care of your problem," what he does is say, "Give me your money, and I'll take it over to Washington and take care of it." Well, now there are a lot of things that have to be done in Washington. There are things that have to be done to strengthen our education, to strengthen our economic system, but, my friends, just remember this: Whenever a dollar can be spent better here in Wheaton, Ill., than it can be in Washington, I am for spending it right here, and that's why I oppose --- [Cheers and applause.] Let me tell you one of the reasons I feel that way. I grew up in a grocery store. Saturday was always the shopping day. That was the big day. It was a little country store, and my dad always said we did more business on a Saturday than all the other days of the week. We used to open very early, 7:30 in the morning, that day, and we stayed open as long as anybody would come in. Sometimes it was midnight. And remember on Saturdays that that was the day we had the specials, and I remember the thrifty housewives coming in, those who had to think of paying the grocery bill and then paying for the clothing, and then paying the doctor bills, and then having enough left over for maybe a little insurance or maybe to take care of some education for the children, and I remember that, as they came in the store, they would go down the line looking at those prices, wondering what to buy, wondering how much they could pay. My friends, I know from experience what it means to people to have to meet a family budget, and I know that if the opponents' programs were to go into effect, they would cost $15 billion a year more than the programs that I offer to the American people. I know that as far as these programs are concerned, they cannot be defined except by higher taxes or higher prices, or both, and I'm against higher prices or higher taxes. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, certainly we're going to pay whatever is necessary to strengthen our defenses, but when it comes to programs which, as I say, would result in higher prices for the American people, the kind of extravagance that I'm talking about, then I say it's time for the American people to think. Remember - and I say this to every person listening, Democrat, Independent; Republican - remember, as you vote on November 8, you're voting for the prices you pay in the grocery store next year. Let's take the farm program. Why would I talk about the farm program here in Wheaton, Ill ? Not many farmers around here. But I'll tell you what it would do. It would raise the prices of hamburger, of bread, of all the other items in the grocery store, by an average of 25 percent, and I don't think the families of America can afford it. I also don't think the farmers can afford it, because it wouldn't help them, as I pointed out in Iowa yesterday. It would cut back their acreage. It would hire a bunch of employees in Washington to tell them how much to grow, when they could sell it, where they could sell it, how much they are going to get out of it. That isn't the American way to handle the program. We've got a program of abundance, not through managed scarcity, and we're not going to have it in the United States. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, your cause is clear on this instance. For a strong America, Government must be strong in those areas and do those things that need to be done, but for a strong America we must remember that individuals must be made strong. That's what makes America great. Let me tell you one thing. We've heard a lot of talk about new frontiers, and, you know, one of the great things about America is that we're always looking to the future, always trying to conquer the new frontiers, and I may say' in that connection however, that if we're going to conquer new frontiers again - we look to our history and what do we find. How was the West - how did they come through the Midwest here, the great Northwest Territory and then on to the Pacific coast? Well, I'll tell you. Individuals did it, individuals with a pioneer spirit, not government. And if we're going to conquer the great new frontiers of science and space in the future, Government must play its part; but it must encourage the best of individual enterprise in this country, and there again --- [Cheers and applause.] Now, one other point on that score and I will pass to my second point and last one: A lot of people say to me, "Well, Mr. Nixon, we agree that under President Eisenhower, we've had more progress than we've had under the previous administration. We recognize that in the Truman administration our prices went up 50 percent, and that we found as a result of that, the pensions and the social security and everything else we had was cut in half. We recognize that in this administration we have kept down the cost of living to one-fifth of what it went up in that period. We know that our wages have gone up and that it's been real increases rather than fictional ones, but, Mr. Nixon, we notice that your opponent said a couple of days ago we're going to have a recession." And he did say that, but you know what I saw in the paper the same day? It was in Detroit when I read this story, and it was a big eight-column head: "Kennedy Predicts Recession." But you know the eight-column head right underneath it - you know what it said? "New Car Sales at Alltime High in America." [Cheers and applause.] Now, what does that mean? You know, you're going to have a recession in this country only if the people lack confidence, and the people of America obviously have the greatest confidence in history, because they're buying more cars than ever in history. Now, somebody's wrong, and I say it isn't the American people. I say it's Senator Kennedy. The American people know [Cheers and applause.] The American people know we're moving forward. They know that we're moving forward economically. After all, he may have more dollars than you have, but you've got more sense than he has. [Cheers and applause.] I want to turn now to my last and a very deadly serious subject-the future of our children, our grandchildren, of our whole civilization. You heard the President describe the responsibilities of the next President - Commander in Chief, the man who makes the decisions that determine whether we have war or peace. I would like to tell you today that I and my colleague, Cabot Lodge, have the experience, that we're not going to have any troubles if you elect us. I don't tell you that because I know differently. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I have sat opposite the conference table from him. I have seen him shake his fist right in my face and say, "We're going to catch you in 7 years and pass you." I have heard him say: "The world is going to be Communist." Oh, I heard him say also, "We're not going to use war for this purpose, because we're going to outstrip you economically," but I have looked into his eyes, and I have seen the fanaticism and the hatred for everything we stand for - and I know, my friends, that because we have men like that in the world, leaders, not the Russian people, because they want peace as much as you do, but the leaders, the Communist leaders, the 6 million or so elite in the Soviet Union, and the leaders in the other countries, that they are determined to continue their efforts to disrupt, to dismay the people in the free world until they conquer the world. And, so, I only say today: We need the best leadership we can get, the most experienced leadership we can get, and I will tell you that certainly in these years ahead, knowing him, having participated in great decisions, that I realize there are certain principles to assure peace. The first one is strength. As long as we are the strongest nation in the world, we can be the guardians of peace, and anything that reduces our strength as opposed to his increases the risk of war, because he will use his strength for war; we never. So, America must be the strongest nation. She is today. I'll keep her that way, and I assure you that will be the first [Cheers and applause.] Second, we also have to see to it that America's diplomacy is firm. Now, that doesn't mean that we won't always go the extra mile - and Cabot Lodge and I have some ideas for strengthening the United Nations, for setting up new organizations which can strengthen the cause of peace and freedom throughout the world. But, my friends, I can assure you of this: We are not, under any circumstances, going to enter into any agreements with the Soviet leaders which would surrender freedom any place in the world, because that leads to war and not to peace. [Cheers and applause.] President Eisenhower has shown that. That's why he took the position he did on Quemoy and Matsu and on the other great decisions. Now, how does our opponent compare in this field? All I can say is this: On three great issues - the Formosa Straits, the President's conduct at the summit conference, when he refused to apologize to Khrushchev, as he should have refused to apologize to him --- [Cheers and applause.] And then on Cuba - Senator Kennedy has said one thing, President Eisenhower has said another - President Eisenhower has been right, Senator Kennedy has been wrong - and the American people know it. [Cheers and applause.] However, people may say, "But, Mr. Kennedy changes his mind. He doesn't say the same thing on Cuba now. He says he supports the President in these other two areas now." My friends, when you're President, you get only one chance. You've got to be right, because if you're wrong, the world may blow up. I'm not saying, may I say, that anybody can go in who is not going to make any mistakes, but I say we cannot afford the White House as a training ground for an inexperienced, impulsive man. [Cheers and applause.] Now, my friends, America must be strong militarily, economically. Her diplomacy must be wise. We must always go the extra mile working for peace, for disarmament, but, above everything else, we must recognize our purpose, our mission in the world. I say this particularly, because this is a college town. I say it because of the kind of college that is here. You know what makes America great? What makes her great is not our military strength, not our economic richness, but the fact that we believe in the right things - our faith - our faith in God, our faith in the rights of men; that those rights to freedom, to independence, don't come from men, but come from God, and, therefore, can never be taken away by any man; our belief that America came into the world 180 years ago not just to have freedom for ourselves, but to carry it to the whole world. We came into the world, in other words, not to enslave men, but to free men. And it is this faith, it is this faith, that the neat President of the United States must keep before the whole world. It is this belief, this idealism of the American people, and it's a shining idealism that I see on your faces and on the faces of millions throughout America, that the people of this country - it is this kind of idealism that the next President must exemplify in every act, in every word, in every deed. And I want to say to you today that I only hope I can be worthy of that. I hope I can be worthy of that kind of trust; but, above everything else, may I ask you: Strengthen the faith of America. See that our young people grow up with faith in God, recognizing that this is a great country, recognizing that the ideals that we have belong not just to us, but to the whole world, recognizing that America has a mission, and that mission is to keep the peace. That mission is to stand for freedom for ourselves and for others as well. That mission is to lead the world to a world in which all men can live together in friendship, in which all men can have he right to worship God, in which all men can have freedom. This is what I believe. These are the things I want to fight for. This is the crusade I ask you to join and work for from now until November 8. Thank you.
 (Following are the questions on defense submitted to Vice President Nixon and his replies.) Question 1. Do you believe in a single military service - all in one uniform? As to question 1 - Do I believe in a single military service - all in one uniform? My answer is "No." The present situation of the uniformed services may be imperfect, but I find it to be generally preferable to any alternative which I have seen so far. I quite agree that the nature of warfare has changed greatly with the advent of tremendously rapid and powerful delivery systems such as the nuclear-armed intercontinental and intermediate-range ballistic missiles. But I see no logical reason why such weapons should be the responsibility of any one of the existing services any more than any other. I do see aspects of the situation which clearly require forces specialized in sea, air, and land warfare. An example is the highly sophisticated Polaris submarine missile system. It requires naval forces regardless of what you might call them or how you may choose to uniform them. Certainly the day of the manned aircraft will be with us for some time to come for the mission of strategic delivery as well as for tactical missions, reconnaissance, and transport. With the nuclear stalemate, we have to face the threat of limited wars as long as the Communist aggressor stalks the world. Limited wars certainly require land, sea, and air forces and men trained in the special techniques of all three. Perhaps, this need could be met by a single service - the Marine Corps is an excellent example. But even leaving aside considerations of tradition, which I consider highly important, I believe strongly that service identity could not be dispensed with without an unacceptable loss of effectiveness. Question 2. Do you believe in the creation of so-called functional forces? In regard to question 2, I reason similarly. I am generally opposed to establishment of permanent strategic, tactical, and defense forces, with representation from all services, because in the end we might well wind up with a multiplication of services instead of simplification.  There is no reason why functional forces should be limited to three and in the end there might well be as many specific forces as there are functions to be performed. It seems to me that the principles of functional organization and of unified command are now used wherever they can be employed effectively.  I cannot see how there would be greater advantage in establishing permanent and rigid functional organizations which would be difficult to change as the requirements of the military situation demanded. Question 3. Would you replace the present Joint Chiefs of Staff with a single Chief of Staff? Or, how would you alter the present structure, if at all? In response to question 3, I most certainly would not replace the Joint Chiefs of Staff with a single chief. It seems to me that the President, as Commander in Chief, and in that sense our constitutional single chief of staff with command authority, would not be effectively served by a subordinate chief of staff who would function as an overall commander of the Military Establishment. Actually, each service is so vast and necessarily so specialized and each chief of service is therefore relatively so inexpert in the power potential of the sister services, that it defies good sense to allow one of the four chiefs to call the shots for the other three. Curiously, the only service chief whose background by years of training in all services might qualify him for such a duty is the Marine Corps Commandant - whose forces, of course, are the smallest of all. Nor am I sensitive to the American sensitivities to the single chief concept, going back to colonial times. Even today we must watch closely any overconcentration of military power in America. The Joint Chiefs structure has been only recently reorganized by law, and we should not now contemplate a violent recasting of what has just been accomplished. Question 4. What other plans for reorganization of the services, or of the Pentagon - if any - do you have? As to question 4, I would go slowly with schemes to reorganize the services, in the military situation with which we are now confronted. I agree that the so-called service rivalries are both costly and sometimes inefficient. But I believe that most of this is today healthy competition, which, as contrasted with bitter rivalries, is good for America's defense, not harmful. At all events, with the Joint Chiefs structure now functioning at peak efficiency of all time, with the Secretary of Defense himself sitting with them to expedite action and resolve differences, what were the shortcomings of the system will steadily improve. We are never going to be able to dictate by law agreement on matters as vital as our national strategy, nor should we. Service rivalry inspired by preoccupation with promotion and prestige and similar parochial concerns cannot be allowed to hamper our security. On the other hand, competition - or better - honest differences of opinion, which are based on how best to insure our security, will, I trust, always be a part of the American military system. I do believe that in acute rivalry areas such as appropriations, legislative affairs and press relations there needs to be better control mechanisms than presently exist, so that the Congress, the public, and the services themselves will not be confused as to established defense policies. Question 5. Do you believe in a so-called "counterforce" strategic concept - the maintenance of a retaliatory force big enough to destroy Soviet strategic air and missile forces - or is a so-called "finite" deterrent - one capable of devastating Soviet urban and industrial centers - adequate? Regarding question 5, I would not be satisfied with a strategic force fashioned only for attack on urban and industrial centers. There are several things wrong with this concept. First, both our speed of reaction should be sufficient to destroy or blunt a large portion of the attack which could be brought against us. This is essential to our survival as a nation. Second, I do not believe that a force capable only of devastating cities would be adequate to deter the launching of an attack by those who are now in control of the Kremlin. Certainly it could not be expected to impose adequate restraint on the Chinese Communists. Our deterrent force must have every essential quality - it must be invulnerable to destruction and it must have the power to destroy the warmaking ability of an enemy. As for attacks on urban populations we must remember that the object of war is achievement of a viable peace, not indiscriminate slaughter or postwar anarchy. There is substantial doubt in my mind that we should ever allow destruction for its own sake ever to take place even in all-out war. America wages war for peace. Our conduct of a war must not contravene that fact. Question 6. As I understand it, a basic planning assumption upon which our defense preparations are based is that in any general war - defined as a war in which United States forces fought Russian forces - atomic weapons would be employed? Do you agree, or would you alter this basic assumption? With regard to question 6, a general war, under the conditions which exist today, would be a war in which United States and Soviet forces would be totally engaged and nuclear weapons would inevitably be employed, if for no other reason than the fact that otherwise the manpower disproportion in favor of the Soviets and the Chinese would be unacceptable to the West. This assumption of course cannot be inflexible because the world situation is always changing. There are other nuclear powers. There will be still more. It is possible that a "general" war might even some time be one in which the forces of the Soviet Union and China were opposed against each other. Question 7. How many divisions should we maintain? (14 Army plus 3 Marines now). In my opinion the composition of our air, army and sea forces in terms of manpower is roughly adequate to present defense requirements, as are the present roles and missions assigned them - namely deterrence of local wars and countering such emergency situations as might arise as larger forces are prepared. I am not satisfied, however, with the state of the modernization of ground forces' equipment or the amount and type of airlift available to our ground forces. I would accelerate both as, indeed, President Eisenhower already has ordered within the past several months. Question 8. The Navy's Polaris submarine program now has funds or partial funds for 21 ships, and next year's budget contemplates 5 more. Is this program adequate, or would you speed it up; if the latter, how much? Question 9. The ICBM program now funded calls for a total of around 300. Is this adequate, or would you increase it; if the latter, how much? Question 10. What level of defense spending do you believe we should aim for, at least during the next fiscal years the present level ($41 billion) ; less than this; $1 billion more; $2 billion more; $3 billion more? I will answer questions 8, 9 and 10 together rather than attempt to make statements about the exact number of Polaris missiles and submarines, Minuteman and other ICBM's that I think our military program for the sixties should include. The Polaris program now has the highest priority in our future security program and is, I believe, to the satisfaction of Admiral Arleigh E. Burke and the other military leaders who are responsible for it. The same is true of the Minuteman program, which the figures in Question 9 do not fully reflect. In my judgment our missile programs in the present strategic force mix are properly weighted as accelerated in President Eisenhower's most recent defense directives. I am sure he will reexamine the entire program once again in preparing his final military budget, which will go to the Congress in January, and I am sure that he would have insisted upon a continuing reevaluation during 1961 should he have remained as President. This will be my policy. Total spending will irresistibly rise as weapons systems and equipment continuously grow more complex and costly. The amount of increase must reflect this need - and the added amount required cannot be arbitrarily set, for it would tend to become a ceiling or a floor on expenditures. I can respond to the expenditure question, therefore, only by saying, first, that whatever a sound defense costs must be spent and, second, the cost will be a rising one. I have already announced that if elected I will convene a conference of our civilian defense leaders, our chiefs of staff, our major force and theater commanders, and other service leaders soon after inauguration Day to reevaluate our military program to insure American superiority during the decade of the 1960's. The purpose of this conference is to project our own situation against Soviet preparations and changing technology. I will not hesitate if, after this conference with the military leaders, it seems advisable to accelerate again both our Polaris and our Minuteman programs as well as any other phase of our preparedness which at the time seemed advisable. I will repeat that the controlling consideration in our military expenditures must be the providing of the defenses our security requires, and not an arbitrary budget allowance. There can be no dollar sign on defending America. Question 11. What suggestions have you for improving service morale and for improving the attractiveness of a professional military career? How about equalizing retired pay? What else? In response to your final question, I think it is necessary that a career in our military services be attractive and rewarding for our ablest young people. I have already stated my view that the simple justice requires prompt enactment of the retired pay equalization bill which has been bottled up in a subcommittee of the Democratic-controlled Senate. I personally called for its approval before the last session adjourned. In addition, I would favor further action and I will ask the military leaders at the conference to which I have referred to make recommendations to me for enhancing the military career at all levels and would propose such legislation as might be needed to that end at that time.
No nation has made greater progress in meeting the human needs of all its citizens than has the United States in the past 25 years. Our standards of health care, of welfare services, and of economic security are equal to or higher than those of any other nation - anywhere, anytime. In this development, we have consistently followed two traditional principles: the first, arising out of the heart of the Judaeo-Christian heritage, is that each of us is morally responsible for the welfare of his fellow men. We do not pay mere lipservice to this affirmation: we have made it the guide to private and public action. At the same time, we have adhered firmly, through most of these years, to the principle that government's primary role is to help provide the environment within which the individual can seek and achieve his own goals. Federal programs, over the last 8 years especially, have sought to support and strengthen individual, private, State, and local initiative. In a sense, all our efforts and accomplishments in this area of human needs can be summed up in one historic event: the organization at the highest executive level, by this administration, of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. We have thus drawn together and focused all the more sharply a vast range of policies and programs, of knowledge and skills. We are proud of our progress. But we are not satisfied. Much remains to be done. I have already put forward, in previous papers and speeches, some specific programs that I vigorously support in the fields of basic research, education, health, housing, and urban renewal. All these are major sectors in the area of human needs. Now, let me direct attention to still another such sector - the problems of our senior citizens - and to some programs that will help us solve these problems and build solid national assets. There are three major factors to be kept in mind as we attempt to devise an effective program to meet the needs of our senior citizens. (1) The first arises out of a simple fact: there are more older people in our total population today than ever before. And in the years ahead, the ratio of advanced age groups to total population will continue to increase. In 1937, for example, the Social Security Board estimated that our 65-and-over age group would reach 20 million by the end of the century. Today - with 40 years still to run - there are approximately 16 million Americans 65 and over, and approximately 36 million between the ages of 45 and 65. Clearly, the more we do now to tackle and solve the problems of the aged, the better will we serve the immediate needs of this important group of Americans - and the better prepared will we be to cope with future needs before they swamp us. (2) The second factor is the tremendous variety of programs and services - public and private, National and State and local - already in existence. Indeed, the very increase in the number of older people in our population is dramatic evidence of our progress to date. It is clear proof of our achievements in medical research and care, of our advances in education, of our overall social and economic growth. Not only are more of the American people now living longer than ever before, but. by and large they are living better. They have access to better medical and hospital care, they are better housed, they are better trained in a wider variety of skills, and they have more financial security than older people, as a group, have ever had before. Such progress is no accident. It follows logically from prodigious and creative efforts of the greatest variety - by labor unions, by business and industrial groups, by the insurance profession, by our States and local communities - and, literally, by nearly every major executive department in the Federal Government. (3) But - and this is the third factor - our total national effort needs still greater coordination and more efficient mobilization of available resources. Right now, it is a tragic fact that much specialized knowledge and many services exist of which those most in need either cannot or do not take full advantage. And as the numbers of senior citizens mount, as the manpower and brainpower needs of our economy grow, it, becomes all the more imperative to mobilize our resources and focus them on major targets. The real challenge, indeed, is to head off problems before they have a chance to become problems at all. How then can we achieve our objectives in meeting the human needs of our senior citizens - in providing them with every possible opportunity for productive and satisfying lives? What role can and should the Federal Government assume in this effort?  I. The Federal Government must bring into play the full range of its resources in helping to solve the problems of our senior citizens I am convinced that we will deal most effectively with these problems only by enlisting some form or degree of Government action - as a stimulant and an indispensable support and supplement to private efforts and to the programs of our States and cities and towns. In fact it is probably fair to say that, right now, there is hardly a department or agency within the executive branch of the Federal Government that is not somehow involved in the effort to help older people live more comfortable and more productive lives. One manifestation of this effort was the establishment by President Eisenhower, in March 1959, of the Federal Council on Aging. By this action, the President brought concern for the problems of older people into the highest councils of the Federal Government, at the Cabinet level. I will do whatever is necessary to do in order to make sure that this Council functions with maximum effectiveness.  II. We must encourage more flexible retirement policies and provide more job opportunities for older people who can and want to work Our national attitude toward retirement is in a rut. We have tended more and more toward a system of compulsory retirement based simply on the criterion of age, a system that gives less and less heed to individual capacities and desires. We must reverse this trend. We must work toward retirement policies, public and private, that allow for greater flexibility, greater opportunity for adjustment to an endless variety of individual situations and capabilities. To many people, retirement represents a welcome change. It enables them to do things that they have not had the opportunity to do during their working years. But to others, retirement comes as a sharp and unwelcome break with a way of life from which they derive their greatest satisfaction and sense of achievement. As a nation, we must abandon the false notion that mental and physical deterioration suddenly set in when a person passes a certain birthday. We have mounting evidence that, in case after individual case, exactly the opposite is true. Many of our present retirement policies are simply a lazy man's way of dealing with what is admittedly a difficult personnel problem. As persons become older it is necessary for the employer to recognize that some are no longer capable of discharging effectively the duties and responsibilities of a particular job. These are always difficult decisions and distinctions to make. We are no longer justified however, in saying that because it is difficult to determine who should and who should not continue to work at particular ages, we will arbitrarily cut off the employment of everyone at age 60 or 62 or 65. By following such policies - and both public and private employers are guilty on this score - we are deliberately preventing capable men and women from continuing to be productive members of society. And we are not only hurting them - we are depriving the Nation of their services and invaluable experience. The age barrier to employment - whether continued employment or new employment - can and must be broken through. Here are some of the ways in which the Federal Government can lead the attack  The provisions of the Social Security Act which reduce or even discontinue benefits if a person earns certain amounts of money after he reaches age 65 need to be liberalized - beyond the limited action taken by the last Congress. There is no question but that, even with these most recent changes, the so-called retirement test will continue to discourage many people from working who otherwise would not only help themselves but also make a contribution to the Nation's productive power. Federal personnel officers should not engage in discrimination based on age - and Executive Orders should make that perfectly clear. Selection for the public service should be conscientiously based on qualification, and capacity regardless of age, in accordance with Federal law which prohibits the imposition of maximum age limits in civil service examinations. The Department of Labor has made great strides in helping the State employment offices provide specialized advice and placement services for older workers. The funds to extend such services, and make them still more effective, should be increased. Research by the Department of Labor on the problem of industry resistance to the employment of older workers should be greatly expanded, in cooperation with industry, with labor unions, and with other private groups. At the same time, intensive educational campaigns should be launched by the Departments of Labor, of Commerce, and of Health, Education, and Welfare to bring to the attention of both labor and management, and the public generally, the facts about older people and their capacities. Vocational education programs should be expanded to provide opportunity for the training and retraining of older workers whose experience has left them ill equipped for present-day occupations but who want to go on working and could, with a little help, continue to be productive members of society. In our day of rapid and continual technological change, such programs take on special significance. Industry should also be encouraged to broaden training opportunities for older workers to help them keep up with advancing technology. The Federal Government should make funds available to the States for demonstration projects to further this objective.  III. We must increase our investment in programs for the rehabilitation of the physically and mentally handicapped. These programs are designed, of course, to serve all age groups. But they can play a major part in helping many of our older people to lead productive and satisfying lives. Here is what the Federal Government can and should do in order to strengthen rehabilitation programs: It should continue to increase its basic investment in the FederalState program of vocational rehabilitation.  A further Federal-State program should be inaugurated at once, designed to help rehabilitate handicapped persons who may never again be able to accept regular employment but who can be brought to the point where they need not be dependent on custodial care. Many older people in hospitals and nursing homes today could care for themselves in the proper setting, if the combined forces of medical care, social service counseling, and other resources were brought to bear on their handicaps. Additional Federal funds should be made available for research and training in the field of rehabilitation, with special emphasis on rehabilitation of older people. There have been many forward steps in the rehabilitation of the physically and mentally handicapped as a result of money invested in research. There is much more that remains to be done. And as we make discoveries growing out of our research activities, we must have trained personnel available to apply the results. We are faced with serious manpower shortages in this area. The Federal Government has made some funds available to accelerate the training of professional personnel, but we must raise our sights. We will get a very substantial return - in both humanitarian and economic terms - on any such investment.  IV. We must make it possible for our senior citizens to receive adequate medical services As a nation we must do a better job of providing adequate medical services for our senior citizens - to prolong their period of productivity, to reduce the likelihood, of dependency, and above all to prolong the period during which hey obtain joy and satisfaction out of living - quite simply, to make sure they will live out their lives in decency and dignity. Here are some steps the Federal Government can take in working toward this objective:  Additional funds must be made available for medical research in those areas directly related to the problems of the aged. Medical research makes a tremendous contribution, of course, to the welfare of all our people - as I have pointed out in an earlier policy paper. But the aged are confronted with cumulative problems, and we need to concentrate a higher proportion of our funds for medical research in this special area of concern. Additional Federal funds should be made available to accelerate our progress in the construction of adequate hospital and medical facilities. The Federal Government and the States must work together to provide greatly improved nursing home facilities. This will have the desirable effect of taking some of the pressure off our overburdened hospitals. Many nursing homes today are model institutions and give the best of care, but in far too many communities they are little more than devices for profiting from human misery. Both the buildings and the services are often shamefully inadequate. We should have just as much concern about these nursing homes as we do about hospitals, and the Federal Government can take the lead in correcting this serious national deficiency. Medical care under our old-age assistance program needs to be improved. The Congress in its last session took an important step in the direction of providing more medical care for the neediest. But we cannot assume that the problem is solved. The Federal Government should keep in close touch with developments in the States and, if there is not marked improvement throughout the country, then we should consider additional steps to bring it about as soon as possible. The Federal Government should use every means at its disposal to encourage the States to put into effect the new Federal-State program which safeguards persons of small income - but who are not on the public assistance rolls - from becoming impoverished by the costs of medical care. This program gives the States great latitude in determining both eligibility and benefits, and the Federal Government will help by paying from 50 to 80 percent of the costs. This program promises to be of great benefit to many of our older people, but we must watch it closely in its early stages; if it proves to be inadequate, then it should be strengthened. All senior citizens who can and wish to protect themselves in advance against the costs of illness should be provided with every opportunity for doing so. Private groups have made substantial progress in providing such protection at reasonable cost. It is clear, however, that private programs will never be able to take up the whole burden. Government must supplement private efforts - without turning to compulsory health insurance. The time has come for decisive action. It is surely possible to develop a sound voluntary insurance program that will greatly eliminate the fears of illness that now hang over the heads of so many of our senior citizens. It is imperative for those who truly believe in the voluntary principle to set aside their differences and develop a program that will attract maximum support. Unless the existing vacuum is soon filled by an adequate voluntary program, pressure for a compulsory program will become almost irresistible.  V. We must continue to improve our old-age, survivors, and disability insurance program During the past 25 years, we have made amazing progress in making available to our citizens a sound program of old-age and survivors and disability insurance. Wet must not be content, however, to stop at present levels of achievement. There is still much that remains to be done in providing an adequate floor of income for the aged, for the disable and for widows and their children. Here are some of the goals for Government action in the years immediately ahead:  A soundly financed plan should be developed to make benefits available - at least as large as the minimum payable under the social security system - for the 2.6 million persons 65 and over who are not now eligible for benefits under social security or one of the other public retirement systems. Most of these persons were simply in the unfortunate position of not working, or not having husbands working, at a time when their employment was covered under the system. Their continued exclusion from benefits is indefensible, and the time has come to take effective action. For many such persons, inclusion under the benefit structure of the social security system would enable them to face the remaining years of their lives with a greater sense of independence and well-being. Benefits now being paid under social security should be subjected to a close and continuing study to determine whether or not they are achieving the objectives of the system. We must never allow this benefit structure to become frozen. We know, for example, that the benefits paid to many aged widows are inadequate. Whenever it is determined that benefits should be increased, we must, of course, hold to the sound policy that has been followed throughout the history of the system - that is, providing additional revenues to cover the cost of additional benefits. The strict requirements in the law for determining eligibility for disability benefits should be modified for those over 60. Persons in the 60 to 65 age group who are prevented by disability from engaging in the kinds of work to which they are accustomed, and their dependents, should still be able to qualify for monthly benefits.  VI. Constructive steps should be taken to provide more of our senior citizens with housing adapted to their needs Much of the housing available to our senior citizens today is ill adapted to their special needs. And it is often located in the wrong place for maximum use and convenience. Additional research is required to determine what older people want and need in the way of housing. Such research should not be confined to determining what kind of living quarters are most desirable for our senior citizens - it should take into account the whole living environment. Funds for such research should be made available to the Housing and Home Finance Agency. In addition we should reexamine our existing housing programs to make sure that they are making a real contribution to meeting the needs of our older citizens and also to make sure that they can be readily adapted to the results that flow from an accelerated research program.  VII. We must develop adequate counseling and guidance programs for our senior citizens When we think of counseling and guidance programs, we normally associate them with children and youth. Today these programs are every bit as necessary for many of our senior citizens who simply do not know where to turn for responsible advice and assistance - even though there may be adequate services available close at hand. There is no doubt that many hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of elderly men and women could be given real help by competent specialists attached to information and referral services in our major population centers. Such persons could become the link between many of our senior citizens and the "outside world". The Federal Government should inaugurate a grant program designed to help States and local communities develop demonstration projects of this kind. A relatively modest outlay might bring incalculable returns.  VIII. The Federal Government must do everything in its power to maintain the purchasing power o f an "honest" dollar  The effects of inflation are of course a burden on all of us, but they are most severe for those living on limited fixed incomes - and this is precisely the case for millions of older people. The Federal Government thus has a special responsibility where they are concerned to combat inflation, and its disastrous effects, in every way that it can.  Unless the Federal Government maintains constant vigilance against inflationary pressures, the potential benefits of many of its own activities in behalf of older people will simply be eaten away.  IX. The Federal Government can also help middle age groups to plan ahead All the above proposals will, in my view, get us well on the way to helping our present senior citizens realize more of the benefits of our phenomenal progress in the fields of health, education, and welfare. These proposals are designed to meet the most pressing problems confronting many of our older people right now. But our efforts must not begin and end there. "Preventive medicine" is far more effective - and far less expensive in the long run - than cures deferred to the last minute. And so we must assist all our citizens - especially the present group of approximately 36 million between the ages of 45 and 65 - to plan ahead for their old age. Many of the proposals put forward earlier in this paper would have the dual effect of both attacking the problems confronting our older people today and helping to prevent these problems from arising in years to come. Vocational training and other educational programs are prime cases in point, where we can buy invaluable lead-time against the problems of the aged by starting with persons of middle age. One of the most important preventives of all would be to accelerate the use of private medical care insurance programs which would enable people of working age to take adequate action to safeguard their health. I think we should give immediate consideration to allowing tax deductions for the cost of health insurance, designed to protect them against catastrophic illnesses that place crippling burdens on our families. In all these ways, then, and by means of an effective partnership of government and business and labor unions and many private groups, we can surely mount a successful attack on the problems of aging and the aged. There is in this rich nation no lack of resources and no failure of will. But there is a lack of fully coordinated, well-focused effort - and it is in this area that the Federal Government has a unique and an urgent job to do. The program I have proposed here will, in my view, do that job - if we support it generously and take action as soon as possible.
We have, as you know, a number of great issues that will be decided in this election a week from Tuesday. There is none that is more important than the decision that the people of America will make as far as their foreign policy leadership is concerned. I think that I am speaking with some degree of experience and also objectively when I say, first, that the American people as far as their foreign policy leadership over the past 7½ years are concerned will be eternally grateful to the man who has been the President of the United States for getting this Nation out of the Korean war, for avoiding other wars and for keeping the peace without surrender for America and the world. [Cheers and applause.] I think, too, that you are all aware of the fact that both Cabot Lodge and I have been part of this administration in that field as well as in others, that we have participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions of these past 7½ years. Now, a great deal has been said about experience and inexperience in this campaign. In fact, my opponent made the statement that - yes, we had experience my colleague and I, but experience in policies that have led to defeat and retreat and stagnation. Well, just let me say this: He was describing an administration all right, but it wasn't ours. It was Harry Truman's. [Cheers and applause.] There has never in the history of this country been an administration whose foreign policies were most disastrous to the cause of freedom than Harry Truman's administration which preceded ours. [Cheers and applause.] Six hundred million people went under communism in that period. At the end of that administration we were in a war, a war which it was necessary to go in at the time we went in, but a war which, without question, was brought on because of diplomatic policies which failed to recognize what Cabot Lodge has already described here - a fundamental truth that when you deal with dictators, be they of any kind, Nazi or Communist, or whatever they may be, that the greatest mistake you can make is to draw a line and say: "Come on in; you can have this, assuming you want no more." That was tried in Korea. That was why President Eisenhower refused to follow that line on Quemoy and Matsu. That's why he was right on that and Senator Kennedy was wrong, as he has been wrong m so many other things [Cheers and applause.] And, my friends, certainly it is rather, I would say, inconsistent to talk about what we are going to do about new frontiers when we are willing to surrender the frontiers of freedom that already exist around the world. [Cheers and applause.] Now, of course, I recognize that he has indicated that now he's changed his mind, that now he thinks he's supporting the President's position on that, and with regard to the President's conduct at the summit conference, and with regard to the President's policies in Cuba and in the other areas where he's been critical; but I can only suggest this: As Cabot Lodge has already implied, and as he and I both know from experience, when a President speaks, when a President makes a decision, it's for keeps. He doesn't get a second chance. He can't call the bullet back after he shoots from the hip. It goes to the target. And, so, under those circumstances, the American people this year, as they make this decision, have to judge whether they can use the White House, in effect, as a training institution for giving experience to a President at the expense of the people of the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] And all that I can say on that score is that had those mistakes been made, had he been President, it would have been disastrous for America. And, so, we have that record, and we have our record, and the American people have a choice. Now I want to look to the future in this particular field of foreign policy. I notice that this meeting is sponsored by our nationality groups. I know, too, that there are none who have a greater affection for, a greater devotion to America, and particularly the American ideals of freedom, than those who came to this land or whose parents came to this land from other countries. I know this from having visited the countries abroad - some of which still have their freedom and some, like Poland, that have lost it - and I can only tell you that, as I look to these next 4 years, it will be the responsibility of the President and the Vice President of this country, and of all the American people, not just to hold what we have; not just to defend freedom for ourselves; not just to be concerned when the battle is going on all around the world and to be concerned when we believe our own interests will be involved - what we must remember is this: That when freedom is denied any place in the world we care. What we must remember is this: when freedom is threatened any place in the world, we care - and we care because we know that freedom is indivisible. It was indivisible in this Nation a hundred years ago - and that was why Abraham Lincoln became a great leader not only of America, but of the world. It is indivisible today in the world, and that is why, just as President Eisenhower has stood for peace without surrender, that we stand today for extending freedom, without war, to the whole world. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, it will be a difficult task at best, difficult because we are confronted with antagonists who are ruthless, fanatical, and who are determined not of course, to extend freedom, but to conquer the world for communism; but I can only tell you, based on my travels abroad, based on what I have seen in the United States, I have supreme faith and confidence in the outcome of this struggle. I have it because I know that the people of the world are on our side. I mean on our side at its best. The people of the world want peace. The people of the world want freedom. The people of the world, despite what their leaders may stand for, want friendship with America, with all people, and want it with justice and freedom. And, therefore, it is we who are riding the wave of the future, not they. It is we who must give the leadership to this great feeling that exists on both sides of the Iron Curtain, a desire for freedom, a desire which can be realized, and realized without war, if we can provide the moral leadership that is expected, from America in this hour of decision, in this hour when we prove that we are either a great nation or a nation that will fall by the wayside for failing to meet this challenge. This is the challenge we face in the years ahead. It is this challenge that Cabot Lodge and I ask for the permission of the American people to represent, to articulate, to lead. We can only say that we know what the challenge is, that we know who our enemies are, that we have the experience of having dealt with them in the past and that, with your help, we believe we can mount a great offensive for freedom, for justice, for peace which will sweep the world and which will build a new world in which all men can live together in peace and justice and freedom. [Cheers and applause.] It is that cause that we ask you to enlist in tonight. It is that cause that we ask you to enlist in for the balance of this campaign, for the balance of your lives because it is not enough simply for a President and a Vice President to articulate these ideals of which I speak. This must represent the whole of our people. Our offensive must be total if it is to be effective. I can only say, as I conclude, that, looking over this great audience, thinking of the people that I have seen already in 47 States across this country, I have no lack of confidence in the outcome. I am not one of those who thinks that America is second in education, that it is second in science, that it's second in other areas, that our prestige is tumbling around the world. [Cheers and applause.] I am not one of those who believes that the American people have lost their sense of purpose, that the American people have lost their idealism, that they are only interested in tailfins and deodorants and all the other things we heard about at the Democratic Convention. I say that the American people are a great people, and I only hope that Cabot Lodge and I can be worthy of their greatness in this campaign. [Cheers and applause.]
Since Cabot has had some nice things to say about me, I have something nice to say about him. It's not unexpected, I can assure you. The job to which he has referred, the job to which Walter Jones has referred, of keeping the peace in this critical period, is a big one. It's a big one for the President. It's a big one for the Secretary of State. And in these times, because of the breakthrough President Eisenhower has made in using the Vice President in something other than presiding over the Senate, it's a big one for the Vice President of the United States. And I think that one of those factors that most recommends our ticket to the American people is that you're not just electing a man who is going to be President and work in the cause of peace and freedom, you are electing two men who will work as a team in extending freedom and in keeping the peace without surrender - and no man could do a better job than Cabot Lodge. Let me say, too, that I am always delighted to appear with him as a candidate, whether it's north, east, west, or south. I would only suggest too, that not only do we see alike on the issues of foreign policy and will work together there, but it happens also that we see the great domestic issues in the same ways and will work together here. And when it comes, for example, to a great issue like civil rights, we speak as one, whereas our opponents, of course, speak with at least two voices, depending upon which part of the country they're in. As a matter of fact., I just go a report that my opponent, in one of his juvenile, schoolboy comments in Philadelphia, suggested that he would like to have another debate, and for me to bring the President along. Just let me say this: I'll be glad to debate him and his whole family any time, but I think what the country really needs is a debate between Jack and Lyndon. Let's find out where they really stand. Now, the time is short, because we've another meeting. Cabot has had a long day of campaigning, and a very effective one, in New Jersey. I've been down in Washington cutting some television tapes for 10 States I am unable to visit this week. Just let me summarize the issues as I see them in this last week of the campaign, and what we want you to do. First, I'll start with the last. There isn't any question about what's going to happen in this county. You know that always goes Republican. The question is by how much. And when it comes to that, we need the biggest vote out of Bergen we've ever had. Let me tell you why it's essential that you work as you never have before. Because America now, as we come into the final week of this campaign, sees finally that it's not just a popularity contest. It isn't a contest between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party. The people of the United States are going to make a great decision as to what direction this Nation will take and its policy abroad and its policy at home. You are going to determine whether we continue to build on the policies that we have developed during the last 7½ years that have kept the peace without surrender, whether we build into a great future, in which we extend freedom, or whether we turn to the inexperience to which Cabot Lodge has referred. And at home we have a similar problem whether or not we continue to build on policies which have resulted in the greatest progress that any administration in history has provided for this country. And, incidentally, may I say parenthetically that it always amuses me for our opponents to say we have been standing still for the last 7½ years. They just don't know what they're talking, about. They haven't been traveling around America if they say thus country has been standing still. Actually, the question is whether we move forward or whether we turn back. Because, my friends, the key point that you must have in mind here, as you consider out policies and those that our opponents offer in the economic field, is that they do not offer anything new except the adjective "new" in front of "frontiers." That's the only thing new that they offer. As far as policies are concerned, they offer a return, a going back: A going back to those things that failed, a going back to policies that lost the value of the dollar, that that diminished it by 50 percent in the course of 7½ years in the Truman years, a going back to policies that put controls on the economy, a going back to policies that stunted progress in this country, a going back to policies that resulted in what was termed even by the Democratic candidate in 1952 as a mess. My friends, I think that the people of this country had enough of those policies in 1952. They don't want to go back to them now. They want to go forward with us, and that much we offer in this campaign. If I could put it bluntly, in terms that everybody can understand, when you vote on election day, you're going to be voting for the prices of everything you buy in the store. You're going to be determining that. You're going to be determining the taxes you're going to pay. You're going to determine whether they're going to go up or whether they can be held where they are as far as the Federal Government is concerned. You're going to determine whether your prices for foods, for example, will go up 25 percent - because that's what our opponent's farm program would do - or whether we're going to have a program of abundance on the, farm, in which we handle our farm problem, but in which we do not raise consumer prices in the process. You're going to be determining whether or not we have policies which will add $15 billion to our budget annually, policies under which you have to have either an increase in taxes or deficit spending, because if you don't increase taxes, you will have deficit spending, and that means prices will go up. Just let me suggest one thing in that respect. I noticed, for example - and you probably saw the headlines in the New York papers and the New Jersey papers today - that Senator Kennedy said he was for a balanced budget. He also said, in our debates, that he was against a raise in taxes. He also said, when he accepted the nomination, that he was for the Democratic platform. Now, my friends, he can't be for the Democratic platform, he can't be for all the promises he's been making around the country; he can't be for that and be against a raise in taxes and for a balanced budget. He's got to give up one or the other. My friends, I go further. If he says that he can keep his promises in the Democratic platform, which would add $15 billion a year to the budget (and he knows this, because every objective survey shows it to be true), if he says he's going to keep the promises he's made all over this country, promising everything to everybody with the people paying the bill, if he says he's going to do this and balance the budget and not raise taxes, he then is showing such an ignorance of simple economics that he disqualifies himself to be President of the United States. This is blunt talk. It is intended to be blunt talk, because, my friends, the American people need to know which road they're taking. What do we offer? We offer the greatest progress this country will ever have in the next 4 years. Schools will he built. We have a program in the field of medical care. We have a program in the field of housing. We have programs in every area that will move America forward. We offer programs that will move us forward economically, in a way that we have not even progressed in the last 7½ years. But the difference is this: We offer progress without inflation, without raising taxes. That's what the American people want, and that's what we're going to give you if you give us the chance on election day. Now, a word about the foreign policy issue and I will be finished. In the field of foreign policy, the choice is very clear. The choice is between two men - and I say two because after what Cabot Lodge has said about me, I can say this about him - and our opponent. Two men, both of whom know Mr. Khrushchev, both of whom have sat down opposite him at the conference table, both of whom have had the opportunity to travel through the world and know the problems of the world, both who were there and participated in the making of the great decisions on Quemoy and Matsu, on Lebanon, on Trieste, and all the rest - the decisions that kept the peace without surrender, that avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. We, in other words, have been through the fire of decision. Do I suggest to you, then, that if we are elected there will be no problems in the world? Do I suggest to you that the seas will always be smooth over which the United States will travel? No, I do not, because I know what the problems are. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know the Communists are ruthless and fanatical, and that they're going to continue to stir up trouble around the world. But I also know this: I know that we can win, win without war if we keep our strength economically and militarily, if we are firm without being belligerent, and if, in addition to that, we do not just hold the line, not just defend what we have, but if we launch a great ideological offensive for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. And that is what we will do, if you give us the opportunity on November the 8th. I can only suggest that in this field, having seen the President make great decisions, there is one thing the American people must remember above everything else: When the President speaks, when he acts, it is for keeps. He never gets a second chance. I remember the morning - a Monday morning - he decided to go into Lebanon. I was in his office. He paced the floor of the oval room of the White House, and finally he stopped. He turned and said, quietly, to me: "Well, we're going to go in." That decision was right, but it was a hard one because there were those who said it risked war. But the President knew that if he didn't stop them there, it would mean inevitable war later as they came down rough the Middle East. If he had shot from the hip, as someone to whom I will not refer by name has done three times or more in this campaign, if he had made a mistake, he couldn't have changed his mind because the American people would have had to pay for the mistake. I say to you that I cannot promise we will not make mistakes. But I do say that we know what the problems are, that we have been through this experience and, therefore, we can offer to you the kind of leadership which we believe will avoid the making of mistakes to the greatest possible extent - and, beyond that, leadership which will move this country forward at home and move her forward abroad as well, in the cause of peace and freedom to which all Americans are dedicated. And, so, my friends, as we look over this crowd, as we know, frankly, what you have given up in fun to be here tonight, we only want to say that, as we enter this last week of the campaign, we couldn't have a better sendoff. I just want to tell you a bit about our last week and the one that is to come, and then you will get the feel of this campaign. A week ago we started on the train - up through Pennsylvania, into Pittsburgh; then up through Ohio, first with a meeting at Cincinnati, at which Cabot Lodge was present; then through the heartland of Ohio, to another meeting at Toledo; then up through Michigan up to Muskegon for a meeting there; then on to Iowa and 2 days in Illinois. In every city we visited we had the biggest crowds in history, bigger than in 1952, bigger than in 1956 and the greatest enthusiasm. What has happened? Ten days ago this campaign began to catch hold. Ten days ago the tide began to run, as it does in a campaign. A candidate feels this. A candidate knows it. I know it, and I feel that tide tonight. I feel it sweeping through the State of New Jersey. I tell you that when we leave New Jersey tonight and go tomorrow again to Pennsylvania, and then into New York for 2 days, then to South Carolina, then a day in Texas, and then 2 in California, with Wyoming and Washington in between, and then to Alaska, and then to Detroit, back to Washington, and then back to California to vote - 21,000 miles in the next 8 days - I can only tell you this: We will keep this tide rolling. Won't you do the same here in Bergen County?
Thank you very much. Congressman Kearns, this great crowd here at the airport in Erie, we thank you for making this one of the great rallies of the campaign here in Erie, Pa. I want to say, first, that this is, for me, a special occasion from a personal standpoint, and I know you won't mind the personal reference in the last week of this campaign. Fourteen years ago Pat and I came to Washington as freshmen, and I met there a Congressman from this district, Carroll Kearns. For 14 years I have worked with him. We were both members of the Education and Labor Committee. You have been sending him back for seven terms. I just want to say this one thing about him: Among his friends and neighbors, and constituents here, the thing that always impresses you about Carroll is that he has such a deep affection for people. He's a man of great heart. Whether it was working on education, whether it was working in the field of health, whether it was working in the field of labor legislation, he was a fair man. But, above all, he was thinking of his people at home - and I am proud to be associated with him. I'm proud of the splendid work he did on the Labor-Management Act of 1959, which has been a fair act, protecting the interests of union members, as well as the interests of the general public. So, with that, I am proud to be here, and I ask for the biggest majority Carroll Kearns has ever had in the district of Erie in this election campaign. Now I realize that you folks up here in this country are pretty hardy, and when that breeze comes off Lake Erie, it doesn't bother you too much. But certainly the fact that some of you have come, the fact that you would be standing here, jammed in like this, indicates that you know here in Erie what a tremendous decision, a tremendously important decision, you will be making on November the 8th, just 1 week from today. I realize that in this audience are members of my party. I realize there are members of the other party. I realize that there are people who have not yet made up their minds as to how to vote. And I want to ask you today, my friends, to do this: only 1 week remains before you make the most important decision of your life. I ask you, as you listen to me talk, to think not in terms of your party. Think in terms of what we need for America, and that will be best for you and best for all the people of this country. Because, my friends, what I stand for is bigger than my party. It's the cause of peace and freedom for the world. It's the cause of progress without war here at home. What I stand for, I believe, commands and will have the support not only of my Republican friends, but of millions of Democrats and independents who realize that what we stand for and not what my opponent stands for, is what America needs in this critical period. Now let me put it directly in terms which all of us will understand and appreciate. First at home: Did you realize that when you cast your vote next Tuesday you're casting a vote for the prices you will pay for everything you buy; you're casting a vote for the taxes you'll pay, whether you want them increased or whether you want them held in check; you're casting a vote for the foreign policy of this country, whether you want to continue the kind of leadership that got America out of one war and has kept it out of others, and has given us peace without surrender today, or whether you want to turn this country over to untried, inexperienced, impulsive, rash leadership, such as our opponent offers. Now let me be specific. Let's take prices. I know something about prices. Let me put it in terms I understand. I grew up in a grocery store. I remember how the housewives used to come in, how they would shop for the bargains - and they had to, because when they could get hamburger rather than the beef roast they would have preferred, it might have made the difference in balancing the budget that week. I remember how the thrifty housewives had to make those decisions every day, and I know the prices you pay for your groceries can make or break the family budget of millions of Americans, including thousands right here in this audience today. Now what has this got to do with electing a President of the United States? Simply this: my opponent offers a farm program, which is the most radical farm program from the standpoint of the farmers and from the standpoint of the consumers ever offered to the American people. It's even more radical than anything Harry Truman ever thought of - and, believe me, that's going some, if you know what I mean. Now what will that farm program do? As far as the farmers are concerned, it will put a million of them out of business by cutting acreage. It will put 50,000 new Federal police inspectors on the farms of this country to see that the farmer grows what he's told, sells it at the amount he's told, does nothing unless he's told to do it by the Government. But you know what it does to you? It harms the farmer, because the farmer will find that he grows less, even though he will get more for that less. But as far as the people are concerned, let me tell you what it does. It will raise the price of every quart of milk by 4 cents. It will raise the price of every dozen of eggs by 28 cents. It will raise the price of every pound of butter by 25 cents. I could go on and on and on. And you say, "Well, Mr. Nixon, it couldn't." Listen, I am a candidate for President. I have studied this thing through. These are not my figures. They are the figures of the career employees of the Department of Agriculture, not the political appointees. They have studied this plan and they say the Kennedy farm plan, if it goes into effect, will raise the prices in the grocery store of everything you buy by 25 percent - and I say: do you want that? Can you afford it? Well, I'll tell you, you're not going to get it, because he's not going to win. We're going to win on November the 8th. Now let me go further. I've been talking about prices in the grocery store. There are also other kinds of prices you will be voting for with your vote on November the 8th. My friends, you know, people sometimes come to me and they say, "Mr. Nixon, why is it that you don't outpromise your opponent? Why is it that you don't do what he does? He goes all around the country and promises this and that, and says, 'I'll spend so many billions for this and so many billions for that.' After all, if that's what the people want, maybe that's the way to get elected" You know why I don't do it? Because I know it's wrong. You know why I don't do it? Because I know that when I make a promise, I'm not going to pay for it, but you're going to pay for it. And that's true of his promises, too. It's your money that's going to be paying for those promises. Let me put it right down in terms again that I understand and that you understand, and, believe me, I have a feeling for these problems, because I've been through them. I've grown up with them. I know my mother and my father, how they had to save and put five boys through school and to pay for all the illnesses we had, because we had many when we were growing up, particularly my older brother. And I know that under the circumstances, it is the duty of the President of the United States to do everything that he can, to spend in Washington those things that are necessary to move us forward, but not to spend a dollar that the people can better spend at home. So, what do we find? My opponent has programs that would cost you - now, listen to this - $15 billion a year more each year. You know how much money that is? That's almost the entire gold reserve of the United States. Let's put it in terms we can better understand. You know what that means? That means higher taxes, higher prices for all the American people; one or the other - or both. "Now, just a minute," some of you say. "Didn't I read in the paper where Senator Kennedy said a couple of days ago that he was against highertaxes?" Yes, you read that. "Didn't I read in the paper a couple of days ago where he said that he was for a balanced budget?" Yes; you read that. But, my friends let's get it down in simple economics. You can't be for programs that would add $15 billion to our budget and also be for keeping the budget balanced in Washington without raising taxes. In other words, you can't be against raising taxes, for a balanced budget, and for spending $15 billion a year, all at the same time; and anybody who says you can do all those things shows a lack of understanding of economics so low that he is disqualified from being President of the United States in my opinion. Let me put it this way. You know, I suppose for Senator Kennedy this is not a difficult problem. He's never had to worry about where the money was going to come from. But I know money doesn't grow on trees, and he should know it, too. And I say to him today, and I challenge him: tell the American people what taxes he is going to raise, what prices are going to be raised, or tell them what part of his program and his promises he's going to give up, because, my friends, this pie in the sky has got to be paid for. Now, what is our alternative? I'll tell you what it is. We offer the greatest program of progress ever offered in an American campaign. And it's the greatest because we can keep our promises, keep them without raising. prices, without raising taxes, keep, them with all Americans movng forward together, with none being left behind. Let me give you some examples. There has been a lot of talk about depressed areas, and I am glad to have an opportunity to lay to rest and lay out cold here today some disgraceful charges which have been made with regard to our program. Do you know what happened? Five different times the President has tried to get the Democratic Congress to pass a bill that would deal with these problems. Five different times they have acted, but when they have acted, they have acted irresponsibly. And you say, "prove it." You know, they've been talking about the bill the President vetoed. I'll tell you why he vetoed it - because it wouldn't have helped Erie. I'll tell you why. The bill the President wants would have provided twice as much money for Erie, a real depressed area, and the other depressed areas we are speaking of, than the bills the Democrats, the Democratic Congress and Senator Kennedy, have suggested. Let me go on to one other subject. I have been speaking of domestic problems. There's another one. It is more important than all the rest. Carroll, you remember when I was here in 1952. You were just remarking about it. Do you remember the situation then? Let's think back a moment. A war in Korea - 160,000 casualties. You remember the situation then. Now, they've been talking about the foreign policy of this administration. And they say it's been a policy of defeat and retreat. My friends, if they're talking about a policy of defeat and retreat, the only thing wrong is that Senator Kennedy is talking about the wrong administration. He meant Truman, not Eisenhower. You remember what happened? Six hundred million people lost to communism in the Truman years. You remember what happened. A war in Korea brought about by a foolish, naive lack of understanding of dictators, of communism, inviting the very attack which came. And may I say that we're not going to go back to that kind of policy. We're going to go forward with the kind of leadership that President Eisenhower has given - firmness, strength, and never surrendering freedom any place in the world at the point of a gun. And I say to you, my friends, that is the road to peace. You know, it's so easy for somebody to get up and say, "Oh, Mr. Nixon, why don't we give this away to the Communists? Why don't we give them this, because we don't want a war?" My friends, we learned in dealing with Hitler; we've learned in dealing with Stalin. We're learning now in dealing with Khrushchev, with Mao Tse-tung, that when you deal with a dictator the way to war is paved with that kind of wishful, woolly thinking, with the kind of thinking which surrenders territory to them. Why? Because they don't want just a couple of islands. They don't want just Korea or Formosa. They want the world. And, wanting the world, every time you turn something over, it whets their appetite and they would demand more - and Americans will die for that kind of policy. Cabot Lodge and I, I can assure you, know the Communists. We know Mr. Khrushchev. We would never make the mistake that was made in Korea. We will keep America strong, and we will keep the peace without surrender, and that's what we ask for in this campaign - the opportunity to do exactly that. My final point: What is your choice, then, in the field of foreign policy ? You know us. You know the experience we have, and you also have an idea what our opponent would do. He disagreed with the President on the Formosa Straits. He disagreed with the President on the summit conference, saying he could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev. You know what Khrushchev would have done had the President or Senator Kennedy done that? If Senator Kennedy had been President and had gone up and apologized for those flights, he would have run over him like a steam roller. I know this man. He's tough. He's resourceful. He is ruthless, and the last thing you must do is to make a concession without getting one in return. That's the way to peace with him - peace through strength, peace through firmness, not through the kind of woolly, wishful thinking that Senator Kennedy has indicated. And then the Cuban situation. Do you recall that, where he advocated a policy which all the papers in the country, including those which endorsed him, said amounted to intervention in Cuba? What would that have meant? A civil war there. What would that have meant? Inviting the Communists in - and all of this, of course, in violation of treaties we have. Of course, I realize there are those who say: "Just a minute. Didn't he take back all those things?" That's right. He's tried to. But, you know, when you're President, you don't have the chance to take it back. When you're a candidate, you can make a statement and change it tomorrow. But when you're President and you make a decision, it's done. It's for keeps. My friends, can we afford to use the White House as a training school for a man who wants to learn how to be President at the expense of the United States of America? Well, there is your choice. I do not suggest, as I conclude, that all of the problems of this world are going to be easy if we're elected, but I do say this: We know these problems. We have dealt with them, and we pledge to you that America will move forward at home, as she has never moved before. We pledge to you that America will move forward abroad without war, extending freedom, extending it to the people behind the Iron Curtain, giving hope to the people in Poland and all the slave countries. And we, above everything else, pledge to you, if you will give us a chance, that we will try to be worthy of America. On that count, just let me state my view about America. . We've been hearing a lot of things wrong about this country - our science is second-rate; our education is second-rate; we have the worst slums; we have the most crowded people; our people lack a sense of purpose; we're only interested in tailfins and deodorants and the materialistic things. Listen, I have seen the people of America. My campaign will have been the most intensive in history. I will have visited every one of the 50 States by the end of this week, and I've looked into the faces of thousands of people like this all over America. I have seen the churches of America, the schools of America, the homes of America. And, my friends, we're a great, people - a great people because we believe in the right things, not because we're rich, not because we're strong, but because we stand for peace and don't want anything from anybody else except independence for them and for us; because we believe in God, because we have faith in the rights of men and belief that those rights belong to all people. We're a great people, and I only hope that we, Cabot Lodge and I, can be worthy of the great American people in these years ahead. Thank you.
The sorry lack of concern for the American people too often revealed by my opponent and his followers can be no better documented than by the record on distressed areas legislation. Five years in a row the President has recommended Federal help for those areas in our country affected with chronic unemployment. But my opponent and his party have preferred to make a political football out of a pressing human problem. Five times they have ignored the President's recommendations and, instead, they have passed two pork-barrel bills of their own, each in an election year, 1958 and 1960, and each so full of politics they were obviously nothing but veto-bait. The 1960 bill supported by my opponent was so bad, for example, that relatively little help would have gone to the areas of chronic unemployment really needing it. This politically inspired, opportunistic bill would have frittered away much of its assistance on places bearing no resemblance to our few truly distressed areas. For Erie, Pa., alone, the bill supported by my opponent could have provided only about $675,000 worth of assistance. But the administration bill, had it been passed, would have meant $1,447,500 of Federal help for Erie. Faced with this kind of evidence and the knowledge that the bill would waste millions where there was no real need, is it any wonder the President flatly refused to put his signature to such legislation? But what about the future? I wholeheartedly support Senator Hugh Scott's bill, sponsored also by Congressman Van Zandt, Fenton and Saylor - all from Pennsylvania. This Republican bill would provide some $200 million for distressed area: $100 million in loans for assistance in developing plant locations to attract new industry; $50 million in loans to help bring water, sewer and other necessary public facilities to industry sites; $50 million for agricultural loans; and $3.5 million for technical assistance. Federal participation would be on a 50-50 matching basis. The Democratic leadership has played politics with this vital issue all too long. I pledge myself and my party to an all-out fight in the next session of the Congress for sound and truly helpful distressed areas legislation.
Many of the most glorious chapters in American history have been written by those immigrants who came here with a strong yearning to share in the American ideal of opportunity and freedom. The greatness we now enjoy has resulted in large measure from our national fusion of the best ideals and the strongest energies of the many and diverse nations that have provided us with our American forebearers. We all should have a continuing and abiding interest in formulating and supporting a realistic immigration program. There can be no question but that our immigration laws should and must be liberalized. It was in this belief that President Eisenhower again urged Congress in March of this year to enact comprehensive and far-reaching amendments to the immigration laws. Unfortunately, Congress, controlled by Mr. Kennedy and his followers, took no action on any of these proposals. High on the list of changes which must be made are the following: 1. A substantial increase in the number of immigrants admitted each year. The maximum number immediately authorized for annual admission is approximately 154,000. I urge that this total be doubled, which would mean admitting a number equal to one-sixth of 1 percent of our total population. 2. Pooling of the national quotas. Each year there are nations which do not use up their immigration quotas. For instance, the English quota is over 65,000 but only a minute fraction of that number is admitted from England each year. At the same time, the quotas of many other nations, such as Italy and Greece, are oversubscribed. I urge legislation which would permit the distribution of unused quotas among those nations which have oversubscribed theirs. 3. The out-dated 1920 census should be abandoned as the immigration quota base. The present restrictions on the number of persons admitted each year are based in part on the results of that census. I urge the substitution of the 1960 census result to make our immigration program more realistic and meaningful. 4. Attention must be given to the problem of relatives of American citizens. Further amendments to the immigration laws must be enacted to give greater recognition to immigrants from the newly emerging nations of the world. I regard these changes in our immigration laws as one of the most important tasks we must undertake in the next session of the Congress.
Of all Mr. Kennedy's never-never economic ideas, none is more fuzzy than his claim that everything he proposes can be paid for by new revenues derived from expanding the economy and increasing efficiency in Government, and not by new and heavier taxes or by deficit spending and inflation. Fiscal experts say his platform would cost $15 billion or more a year over and above what we are now spending on the Federal budget. Mr. Kennedy has never offered any solid figures of his own to refute this expert cost analysis. He hasn't simply because he can't and he knows he can't. By now he has made so many promises to so many people that they are colliding with each other. To get the more than $15 billion extra in Federal taxes from an expanding economy at going tax rates, he would need a magic wand - in fact he would need two or three for he would have to conjure up a jump of some $85 billion in the country's gross national products jump of about 17 percent. He couldn't do that in 1 year, or 2 or 3. Nobody could. The plain truth is that there are only two ways to pay for this huge spending program of his - new taxes or new and ever larger deficits. I challenge him to say which it will be. He says he is for a balanced budget. What new taxes does he intend to levy? If he does not intend to levy new taxes, which of his platform promises is he now going to repudiate? Or is he going to keep all his promises and abandon his support of a balanced budget? One thing is certain: Senator Kennedy has set a new all-time record for promises - promises all logic shows he could not keep. Is he going to run the huge deficits that such a course would require? If he runs the deficits - the course of least resistance - then the American people would be in for another ruinous round of inflation. That would mean-  Shrinking dollars in the pay envelope.  Clipping the value of pensions, savings, social security.  Boom following by a bust with its unemployment and business failures.  Does Mr. Kennedy, who has insisted on trying to debase the image of America throughout the world, also insist on trying to debase our currency.? The American people want none of this. They are interested in economic growth in our country - real growth, growth without inflation, growth without boom and bust.
Congressman Paul Dague, and this great crowd here in Lancaster, and, I understand, from Lebanon, we want you to know how much we appreciate this tremendous welcome. When I looked at the population chart coming in here to Lancaster, it said 60,000 people. Well, I think all 60,000 are right here at this meeting today, and the ones who aren't here were on the streets and out at the airport. Certainly this is one of the great rallies of the campaign. One week from today you are going to make a decision with regard to the future of America. That decision is one that is tremendously important to every person in this audience, to every one of the 180 million people in this country. My friends, the question is: Are we going to go forward or are we going to go back? Are we going to go back to the policies we left 7½ years ago, as Senator Kennedy asks us to do, or are we going to build on the policies that have kept the peace, that have brought us the greatest progress in the history of this country, and build for a better America and peace without surrender in the years ahead? I say we must go forward and not back, as Senator Kennedy suggests. I say that for a number of reasons. First, because the people of America know what they left behind in 1953. They know that they were in a war in Korea. They know that for 20 years we had never had prosperity without war or as a result of war. They know that in the 7 Truman years we had seen our savings, our social security, our insurance eaten away by a 50-percent reduction in the value of our money. They know that there was corruption in Washington because the big bosses had a key not just to the front door, but to the back door and the side door of the White House. And I say they're not going to have a key to any door to the White House if we are elected. You can be sure of that. And the American people now know that they come to a great crossroads, a crossroads in which they see before them promises. Promises for what? Promises that would go back. Promises that would restore in this country policies that reduced the value of our dollars; promises that would bring back in this country policies which discouraged business investment, policies which resulted in unemployment, policies which stagnated the American economy. I just want to say in that connection that, as you consider the promises that have been made in this campaign, we all must remember that we pay for them, and as far as my opponent is concerned all that he offers is - what? He offers promises; promises that would add $15 billion a year to our Federal spending in Washington. And now what does he say about them? He says, "Oh, don't move." My friends, he says, "Don't move the American people. It isn't going to cost you anything." He says, "We are against raising taxes. Don't worry about that. I am for a balanced budget. Don't worry about that." Now let me say something. If he is for a balanced budget, if he's against raising taxes, and if he is for his promises and his platform, and if he believes he can be for all those three things, he shows an ignorance economically which disqualifies him from even being considered for President of the United States. My friends, in order to spend $15 billion a year more, he has to raise your taxes and he has to have deficit spending. I see some older people in this audience. Do you remember what happened in the 7 Truman years? Do you remember your pension or your social security? Do you remember what happened to it? Cut in half. I see some wage earners here. You remember what happened in those years. You remember that we had wage increases that at the end of 7 years meant nothing at all, because it was all eaten up by inflation. My friends, we can go forward in America. We can go forward in the fields of education and housing. We can attack the problems of depressed areas. We can move against them. We can do all these things. But, I say let's go forward without inflation, rather than have progress with inflation. That is the choice the American people have to make in this campaign. I say to you the policies that would lead to disaster are policies the American people cannot buy. And, remember, whether you're a Democrat or a Republican or an Independent, when you vote November the 8th, one week from today, you are voting to raise your taxes, raise your prices, or both, unless you vote for our ticket, because we offer the kind of progress that all Americans want - not progress that says turn everything over to the Federal Government, but progress that says the Federal Government does what it ought to do, but its main function is to give individuals a chance, an opportunity to do what they can for themselves and for America. That's the way to progress in this great country of ours. Now I want to lay to rest one story that has been floating around in this area and other parts of the country. I understand that the charge has been made - and this is one of the cruelest, one of the most despicable things that has been said by my opponent in this campaign. It's vicious; and I use these words and adjectives advisedly. He says, "Don't vote for Mr. Nixon, because, if you do, you're going to lose your social security." My friends, you know what the record is. This administration has seen more progress in social security than any administration in history. Twelve million people have been added to the rolls. We've had almost a 50-percent increase, in many categories, in benefits. And I say to you that if you elect my opponent, that will ruin social security, because the money that you invest and save in social security will be cut in half by his extravagant spending at home which he has offered to the American people. I say that if you want social security, we offer the way, not his way, and the American people are entitled to know that in this campaign. Now let me turn to the other great issue. We want to move forward in this country. We want prosperity and progress without inflation and that's what we offer. But also, my friends, we want peace without surrender. You remember the situation in 1952 - a war in Korea, a war that would not have happened unless we had had naive people making decisions in the State Department of the United States. My opponent makes and falls into that same naive error. I say we had enough of that kind of foolish diplomacy in 1952. We want no part of it in 1960, and we're not going to vote for it in the year 1960. Look at the record here, the record of the Eisenhower years, 7 years in which we got rid of one war, kept the Nation out of other wars, 7 years in which we have kept the peace without surrender, 7 years in which the President of the United States has been a champion of peace, but has never given an inch to those who oppose freedom around the world. And what does our opponent offer in this field? Three times he's disagreed with the President. At Quemoy and Matsu, if he had been President, he would have made a fatal error of doing exactly the thing that was done in Korea, of inviting the Communists to take a portion of the free world, and that would have led to war. Take the situation at the summit conference. The President refused to apologize to Khrushchev. Why? Because he was doing what was necessary to defend the security of the United States, and could not have apologized or expressed regrets. If Kennedy had been President and had done that at the Paris Conference, Khrushchev would have run over him like a truck running over a little boy. We cannot have that kind of situation. And then in Cuba. Here again we see the President taking the line that we will quarantine Castro, and we're doing it economically and politically, and that will have the effect that everybody wants to see, that the Cuban people have the opportunity to have freedom. And yet here again my opponent made a suggestion which throughout the world, in every paper supporting him in this campaign, even in the United States, was interpreted as meaning advocating Government intervention in Cuba. What would that have meant? It would have meant an open invitation for civil war, an open invitation for the Communists to come in. But then others say to me, "But, Mr. Nixon, he didn't mean it. He says he didn't mean it on Quemoy and Matsu. Now he's for the President. He didn't really mean to use the words 'apologize' and 'regrets'. He was only talking about theory. And as far as Cuba was concerned, he really meant to say the same thing we've been doing all the time, to give moral support to freedom throughout the world." Let me say this: you can forgive a candidate for his mistakes, because when he makes them, he can take them back, as Senator Kennedy did on these three issues. But when you're President, you get only one shot. You've got to be right. I remember when the President made the decision to go into Lebanon. I remember his pacing the floor at the White House. And I remember finally he turned to me and he said, "We've got to go in." It risked war. He knew that. But he knew that if we didn't go in, there was certainty that we would have either war or surrender. He was right. His critics who did not want him to go in were wrong. And, my friends, I say we cannot afford either Senator Kennedy's extravagance at home, or his inexperience abroad in this critical period in the Nation's history. Because, my friends, when a President makes mistakes, it means it's for keeps. So, what do we offer in this field? Oh, we don't suggest that things are going to be perfect in foreign policy. But we know, both my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I know, the Communists. We know Mr. Khrushchev. We know their tactics, and we will not be pushed around by them any place in the world - and that's what the American people want. I know that some friends will say, "But, Mr. Nixon, wouldn't it be better to take a little push here, a little push there? Why can't we be more flexible? Why don't we give up those little islands out there? Who wants to get in a war about those?" And the answer is: Who wants to get in a war about anything? My friends, the point is, when you're dealing with ruthless dictators - we learned it with Hitler; we're now learning it with Communist leaders - the road to war is paved with well-intentioned ideas that you can surrender freedom and then have peace as a result. We learned our mistakes from the past, and, with our leadership, we will not make those mistakes in the future. And, so, here is your choice. Your choice at home is to move forward, to move forward to the greatest progress that America, has ever had, to move forward to better schools and better housing, to move forward in an attack on our farm problems, and all the others that exist in this country, but to move forward in freedom, not attacking the frontiers of freedom, to move forward in the way that Americans want to move, to move forward without inflation. And then you have the choice, on the other side, of going backward, going backward on a road paved with glittering promises, but a road that leads to economic disaster for the American people and the American economy. My friends, were a go-ahead people. We're not going to go back. We're going to go forward. And the same is true in the foreign policy area. Here again we have the suggestion that our policies have failed, a suggestion that we ought to apologize to Khrushchev, that we should have done something different in Quemoy and Matsu, that we didn't do the right thing in Cuba. Well, my friends, they pay off on the results, and I say the American people are not going to take a chance on inexperience when we can go forward with men who know the world problems and who will not have to practice their mistakes on the American people. Finally, we need your help. I speak now not of this campaign alone, but I speak of this great conflict in the world for freedom. We need it because, my friends, when you hear about the strength of America, militarily and economically, never forget that what really is going to count in these years ahead is whether we believe in the right things, and believe in them deeply enough and strongly enough and vigorously enough so that we can fight the enemies of truth, the enemies of God, the enemies of freedom all over the world. And I say to you in the homes, in the churches, in the schools of America: strengthen the moral fiber of this country. Let young Americans realize that what really makes America a great country is not that we're the richest country or the strongest country, but that we are the country which believes in ideals that are bigger than America, as big as the whole world itself; and that we will fight for those ideals, fight for them throughout the world; and that we are fighting to win a victory for freedom without war. We can win this victory, I know. I have seen the world. I know the Iron Curtain countries. I know the countries of Asia and Africa, of South America. And, my friends, the world, the people of the world, are waiting to be led, to be led in the paths of peace and freedom. We have been moving in that direction. But I pledge to you that Cabot Lodge and I, knowing these problems, knowing what America stands for, will launch a great offensive for freedom, an offensive which will win, and win without war, and it will win because you're going to help us by making America strong at home, morally and spiritually. That's how we're going to do it. We also need your help in this campaign. And I put this on the basis not of any partisanship, not of any personality, but on the basis of what America needs and freedom needs. If you believe, my friends, that ours is the way to the future that America wants, if you believe that America should not turn back economically, if you believe that America should not take the deadly risk in the field of foreign policy that I pointed out, of inexperience and immaturity and rashness and impulsiveness, then, I say, this is something to fight for. This is something to work for. This is something to go and work for every day between now and election day. Let's do it - and if you do it here, if we do it all over the State of Pennsylvania, we will carry Pennsylvania, and Pennsylvania will carry the Nation. Thank you very much.
Governor Rockefeller, Senator Keating, Congressman Ostertag, Congresswoman Weis, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and this perfectly wonderful audience both inside the War Memorial Auditorium and outside as well: We thank you for one of the greatest welcomes we've received in the whole campaign, right here tonight in Rochester. When we came in at the airport, the number of people there was so great that I wondered if anybody would be down here, and I understand the reason they were there was that they couldn't get in here. When we saw the crowd outside and realized how many were waiting to get in, we realized what a tremendous interest there was in this rally - and that means what a great interest there is in this campaign and the decision you will make in New York, and in the Nation, just a week from tonight. I say a week from tonight because by that time the votes will begin to come in. By that time we will begin to know what the results are from New York and the Eastern States, and I just want to say this: That, based on what I have seen in the last 10 days of this campaign, there is no question but that a great tide is running in our direction. And if you continue to work, as you have indicated by your enthusiasm you are working now, there is no question about the result, no question about what will happen in New York and in the Nation on November the 8th. That decision is one that will involve party. It will also involve men. But, above all, it will involve the United States of America, its future and the future of people throughout the world. My friends, I want to talk very bluntly to you tonight. I want to lay it on the line with regard to the differences between the two candidates. I want to do so because the decisions that are made this week in the State of New York, and in other States, will determine this election - and you can help. You can help people who have not made up their minds, by bringing the truth to them - the truth about our program, the truth about our opponents - and that will mean victory for us, because we're on the side of truth in this campaign. Before we can talk about the truth, we've got to lay a few lies to rest. I'll start on those right now, and I think you'll be interested in them. My friends, at home the great question before the American people is whether we are going to turn back or go forward. Now, the decision you will make will determine that because what my opponent tells the American people is this: That for 7½ years America has been standing still; that for 7½ years we have not been moving, and that now we've got to get her moving again; and he says that in order to do this we've got to go back to the policies of Harry Truman. That's what he says. He doesn't use those words, but he does use those policies. He talks about new frontiers. But, my friends, you can't cross new frontiers in an old jalopy with a new paint job - and you can be sure of that. Except for the farm program - which, believe it or not, is worse than anything Truman ever thought of - there is nothing new in the program that my opponent offers to the American people today. So, first, let us look at this charge that America has been standing still. I discussed it tonight on television a little earlier. Look around yourselves - look at the city of Rochester. Look at the growth in this area. Look all over the United States. What do you find? You find more progress in these 8 years than in any 8 years in history. You find we have built three times as many schools. You find we have built 20 percent more housing and hospitals, and made more progress in civil rights, for example, than in the previous 80 years. Name any area, and you will find that we have been moving forward under this administration. My friends, the thing that we want to remember, too, is that we've been moving forward without war - and this is something our opponents were never able to accomplish in 20 years. Their progress and prosperity were never accomplished except during wartime, or as a result of war. That's the record and nothing can change the record, and this is what they must stand on, and run on, in this campaign. Now, I realize, of course, that if he says we've been standing still and that can't be proved, then, of course, we have to look at the next charge, and that is this: Things may be doing fairly well today, but we're going to have a recession - if you vote for Nixon and Lodge, we are going to have a recession. I see a recession around the corner. The other day, as I pointed out on television a little earlier, I was in Detroit. I picked up a copy of the Detroit Free Press. A screaming eight-column head said, "Kennedy Predicts Slump." I suppose all the people in the country worried about that. Here is a responsible man, a man running for the Presidency of the United States, predicting that we're going to have a slump or a recession. You know what the eight-column head right above it was? It said, "New Car Sales at Alltime High in America." My friends, let's get one thing straight right now. Either Senator Kennedy is wrong, or 180 million Americans are wrong - and I say he's wrong and they are right in having faith in the American economy. I can think of nothing that is more despicable, nothing that is more irresponsible, than for anybody to try to win an election on the basis of talking this country into a recession. He isn't going to get away with it, because we're going to win the election and he isn't going to have a chance to prove it. But now I come to another charge, and this is one I must lay to rest, because unless we do so we can't move forward on the programs that America needs in this period. You've all heard it. In every town and every city I have visited today - and I have been down in Lancaster and Erie, in Syracuse, and now I've come to Rochester - I have had a report on the speeches my opponent has made while he was here. In those speeches, over and over again, there was the same refrain - he said Mr. Nixon and his party are against aid to education; they're against education; they're against medical care for the aged; they're against social security. I'll read what he said about that. He said "the Republican Party has been inconsistent for a quarter of a century. It has attempted to wreck social security. I believe Mr. Nixon has led the wrecking crew, and has not merely been a member of it." Now, he has said that not once. He has said it not four times in the cities I have mentioned - he has said it over and over again. He's saying it now in California. The first time you say something like that it is a mistake. The second time you say it, it is a bad mistake. The third time you say it, when you know it's wrong, it's a falsehood, a lie, and that's what I call it tonight. My friends, look at social security. We've had the greatest progress in social security since the law was enacted during this administration - 12 million people added to the rolls; increases in the number of benefits, and increases in the amount of benefits. Who are the friends of social security? And we would wreck it, he says. I have something to say about who would wreck it, but let's go on from there. What do we have, then? A choice of going back, back to policies which, as I have indicated, never failed. As far as disaster was concerned, yet failed always to produce what America wanted - progress and prosperity without war, and without inflation. Then we have what we offer - a program that will move America forward, a program in education, a program in housing, a program in health, a program in social security, a program in civil rights. These are programs that will produce on the promises that our opponents make so liberally. That's what we always have done, and that's what we're going to do this time, when we're given the opportunity by this election. And I'll tell you why we can produce more. We can produce more because we will tap the energies not only of the Federal Government, but of all the great American people. We still recognize and have faith in the American people, while our opponents seem to have lost confidence and faith in them and in whatever they can't turn over to Washington - and we're not going to let them do that, either. Now, let me turn to a key question. When you have your choice of programs you also have a choice of what it's going to cost. When we examine my opponent's programs, we find that, to carry out his promises, his policies, and his platform will add $15 billion a year to the Federal budget - and I use these figures advisedly, because I have looked into this and have studied it. Now, where are you going to get the money? Let me tell you. He says he's against higher taxes - he's not for that, so you might leave that out. He said also in New York City the other day, in speaking to a group of businessmen, that he is for balancing the Federal budget. So that's where he is - for balancing the Federal budget. He says, "I'm against higher taxes; I'm for balancing the Federal budget, and I'm for programs that will cost $15 billion a year more." My friends, you can't be for those three things without being an economic ignoramus of the worst type in the world. I challenge him to be honest with the American people, as is his adviser, Mr. Galbraith. Mr. Galbraith for example, is for all these programs, too, but he says we ought to have a national sales tax to pay for them. Is my opponent for Mr. Galbraith's plan, or is he going to try to fool the American people in thinking that money comes off of trees? No, he can't get away with this. My friends, you either have to raise taxes or you have to have deficit financing, which means raising prices, or he has to give up part of his programs - and he should tell the American people the truth. What is he going to do - one of these three things? It's time that he told. I mentioned his farm program a moment ago. Here is a program that will add 25 percent to the grocery bill of every family in America. I know something about this, as I've looked into these costs. This is the figure we get right from the Department of Agriculture - not from the political appointees, but from the men who make a career of studying these things. This means, for example, 2 cents more for every loaf of bread. It means 4 cents more for every quart of milk; 22 cents a dozen more for every dozen of eggs; 28 cents more for every chicken you buy, and so on down the line. This is what it costs to pay for the programs that he proposes. My friends, I say when we talk of who's being cruel, who's against social security and the millions of people living on pensions, it is my opponent and his programs which would cut their pensions and social security in half by raising the prices of the things they buy. This is the case. And I say, my friends, that I will not let that happen. I say that we can move forward. We are going to have to spend more in the areas that I have mentioned; but we can move forward under the programs I have devised, programs that will move America forward, but not with the kind of irresponsible, reckless spending which he asks for - and, my friends, I say that this is a responsibility of whoever is President of the United States. The cruelest thing that happened in the Truman administration was what happened to the people on pensions, and the people on social security. Do you remember? Prices went up 50 percent. The wage earner didn't suffer too much - he just didn't gain although his wages went up. He didn't gain a bit, but look at the millions of people who had saved a little money, trying to eke out a living on social security, pensions, life insurance cut in half. Why? Because of irresponsible policies of Government. That was wrong. It was wrong then, it's wrong today, and I'll never let that happen. I think the American people want us to stop that sort of nonsense. And so, in this economic field, move forward without inflation by moving forward with us. Move forward also without war - and that's the next point. In the field of foreign policy, there is much that we could discuss. I will only touch on it briefly tonight. You have here, again, a very clear choice. You have a choice between two men on our side, both whom know the problems with which we will be confronted. Both of whom have sat with the President over the past 7½ years, participating in the discussions leading to the great decisions, decisions that avoided war on the one side and surrender on the other. You have two men who know Mr. Khrushchev, who have sat opposite him at the conference table, who have not been taken in by him, who will always work for peace, but who will always remember in dealing with a dictator that the road to war is paved with weakness and surrender - and that we're not going to have that kind of policy. What do we have as far as our opponent is concerned? Here again we see that strange pattern of rashness, of impulsiveness, of inconsistency - in 1955, disagreeing with the President on the necessity of defending the Formosa Straits area; in 1955, again, voting with a small group of Senators who would have denied to the President the very power that has kept the peace in that area by not surrending two islands of freedom; and then in 1960, this year, again disagreeing with the President when the President refused to apologize or express regrets to Khrushchev for the U-2 flights. My friends, the suggestion has been made, "What harm would it have done to apologize? Wouldn't it, maybe, have saved the conference?" If, for example, Mr. Kennedy had been there, and if he had apologized and expressed regrets, Mr. Khrushchev would have beaten him to a pulp. That's the kind of thing you're confronted with, with him. And then again on Cuba, a similar pattern - saying that our policy of quarantine was too little and too late, and then advocating policies that were universally interpreted as being intervention in that particular area, which would have violated every treaty we have with our sister organization of American States, and also the U.N. Charter, in the process. These were mistakes. Many can say, "But they were well intentioned, Mr. Nixon. He changed his mind. He now is going to be something else. He says he supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu, that he didn't really think he could have apologized now, and that he did the right thing, and also, as far as Cuba was concerned, that he really didn't mean intervention - that is only the way it was interpreted." All I can say is this: I know when a President makes a decision, it is for keeps. A candidate can say something, and he can take it back, and nobody is the worse for it; but when a President decides to defend Quemoy and Matsu, to make a decision on Trieste, or any of the other great decisions that have avoided war, it's for keeps - and I say, my friends, that at the present time we cannot afford to use the White House as a training school for a man to gain experience at the expense of the country. There is your choice. Move forward at home into the greatest future America has ever had; but move forward with programs that will really move America, not give promises in which the promises will be eaten away by inflation. Move forward with programs abroad that will lead America in the paths of peace; lead America in the paths of extending freedom, but always recognizing that when you're dealing with dictators the way to peace is to be firm, to be nonbelligerent, always working for the cause that you believe in, rather than simply working against the cause that they believe in. This is the opportunity that Cabot Lodge and I ask to work for, in these next 4 years. I say to you tonight one thing more: If you believe, here in this area and clearly apart from party, that this is the kind of leadership that America needs, then and only then are we entitled to your support. We've heard a lot these past few weeks and months about the things wrong with the American people. "The American people have no sense of purpose," particularly as you sit in Washington, and read the newspapers and the columnists and all the other hand-wringing people - "No sense of purpose * * * only interested in tail fins and deodorants * * * don't care about the world * * * no sense of responsibility." All of this chatter was picked up and repeated over and over again, ad infinitum, at the Democratic Convention in Los Angeles, and now it's continued again and again and again by Senator Kennedy and his apologists and defenders and the like. I just picked up an issue of Pravda the other day, and there was Mr. Stevenson saying American prestige is at an alltime low. Here's a man Senator Kennedy indicated earlier last year might be his next Secretary of State. And he also says: "The Communist World," and I quote, "looks more dynamic. We look static." Now listen, I have been in the Communist world. I have been in the Communist world, and I have been in the free world. I have been in the Communist world and I have been in America, and I can tell you this: These people of ours, the American people, are a great people. The American people are dedicated to peace - they are dedicated to freedom, and they are willing to do what is necessary to support their leaders in a great crusade for peace and freedom. I say that it's up to our people and it's up to our leaders as well; and I would only suggest that our leaders, instead of criticizing our people, ought to be worthy of the great American people - and I hope we can be. Thank you.
The fear of renewed inflation with a continual rise in the cost of living remains a top issue with the American people in this campaign. The prospect of repeating the 48-percent increase in the cost of living that took place under the last Democratic President is enough to scare anybody. It meant that by the end of Mr. Truman's administration of 7½ years, the American housewife could buy only two-thirds as much for a dollar as she could at the beginning. It meant that the value of an elderly couple's pension dollar had been cut by one-third. In the same 7½ year period, according to figures of the Bureau of Labor Statistics  A pair of overalls went up 53 percent;  A woman's cotton dress went up 34 percent; A man's shirt, 60 percent;  A cookstove, 34 percent;  An innerspring mattress, 28 percent;  Women's shoes, 63 percent;  Children's shoes, 73 percent. Here is what would happen if that same degree of inflation repeated itself in the next 8 years:  A $4 pair of overalls would go up to $6.12;  A $12 woman's cotton dress would go up to $16.08; A $4 man's shirt would go up to $6.40;  A $90 cookstove would go up to $120.60;  A $29 innerspring mattress would go up to $37.12;  A $14 pair of women's shoes would go up to $22.82;  A $6 pair of children's shoes would go up to $10.38. This is a frightening prospect but it need not come to pass. Under President Eisenhower, runaway inflation has been stopped and the rise of the cost of living has been brought under control. In the last 2½ years, the value of the dollar has been held virtually steady - a stability it certainly never knew under the opposition. As a result, the greatest increase in the average family's real income in recent history - 15 percent - has taken place under the Eisenhower-Nixon administration. And now along comes my opponent with proposals that would inevitably mean a complete about face and a retreat to the unchecked price increases of the Truman administration. No wonder people are upset and fearful about the future purchasing power of their money. No wonder they are looking for reassurance. Fiscal experts have priced the cost of his platform at more than $15 billion a year over and above what we are now spending. To pay for this Senator Kennedy has to admit either that he will increase taxes, or that he will unbalance the budget and thereby resurrect the inflation-breeding deficits of the past. Anyone can add up the facts of the case. They mean runaway inflation and the tragically costly Kennedy program are one and the same thing. If Senator Kennedy was candid, he would admit this. His farm program, for example, will sharply increase the cost of food in the stores, according to career farm and food experts of the Department of Agriculture - the people my opponent said could "without difficulty" calculate prices under his income parity concept. Specifically, they estimated that under the Kennedy farm plan:  Beef would go up 16 cents a pound;  Pork would go up 24 cents a pound;  Eggs would go up 28 cents a dozen;  Milk would go up 5 cents a quart. Senator Kennedy has also made it clear that he would pursue a cheap money policy and has indicated he would pressure the Federal Reserve Board through Presidential influence in order to force the price of money down by artificially increasing the supply. This proposal is not as easily understood as a rise in the price of milk, but it is dangerously irresponsible. It would be like trying to manufacture prosperity with a printing press. I can think of no carnival confidence man selling a worse quack medicine to an unsuspecting customer. For the inflation - the rising cost of living - that my opponent's proposal would bring, would affect not just a few items, but every single thing you buy - all across the board. In other words, he can try to give us low-priced money, but only at the cost of higher prices for everything else. When the American people hear about his proposals, no wonder they are concerned, no wonder they are alarmed, no wonder they consider the threat of more inflation with a much higher cost of living a top issue in this campaign. During, the present administration, the country has had its first breather in many years from runaway inflation. Under my program - which calls for Federal budgets that are under control and a Federal Reserve Board free from political pressures so that it can protect the value of our dollar - people can be sure of the real value of their money and savings. I am dead set against a return to the unchecked inflation of the Truman years. I pledge myself to prevent it. This is a pledge that my opponent, running on his platform and promises, cannot make.
Thank you, Senator Hughes. You know, I wish she could make this speech. Senator Hughes, Governor Rockefeller, Senator Keating, Congressman Riehlman, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this great audience here in Syracuse: I don't know of a better way to start our last campaign trip in the great State of New York than with this tremendous rally in Syracuse, and we thank you for coming out, as you have. [Cheers and applause.] It occurred to me as we were flying in that this was a very difficult time for a rally, right in the dusk of the evening, at a time when you were finishing your shopping or your jobs and on the way home to supper, but certainly to see this great turnout indicates your enthusiasm, your interest and that you're going to fight through to victory in this county and in this State in November. [Cheers and applause.] And before I go into some of the issues, I wish to discuss today, I want to say, first, that it is always a pleasure to be in this city, but particularly it gives me an opportunity to speak for those running for office from this area on our ticket. They are a splendid group of candidates, and Walter Riehlman, who has served in the Congress with me for so many years and his colleagues on the State ticket are men who certainly justify your every support, and I am happy to give it, whatever my support is worth to them, on this occasion. [Cheers and applause.] Governor, while you and Ken Keating are not running, I'm always delighted to appear on the platform here in New York, and we're going to travel through this State as we work for victory this November. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I want to tell you just a word about this day today, because it is a tremendously important day. This is a day when we are 1 week away from the election. This is the day when we are beginning to get down in that homestretch when the undecided voters are making up their minds as to how they will vote on November the 8th, and this is a day, therefore, that's tremendously important in terms of public sentiment, crowds and the like, and I can tell you that up to this time, and including this time, we've never had a better day of campaigning than we have had today in Pennsylvania and in New York. [Cheers and applause.] A record crowd in Lancaster, in the city square; a record crowd at Erie Airport, where it was twice as large as our opponent had there just 2 weeks ago; and now a great [cheers and applause] - and now a great crowd here. And there's a reason for all of this. The reason is that a great tide has been running, running our way for the past 10 days. It's been running our way because the people of America are beginning to understand what the choice is. They are beginning to understand what they will be deciding on election day. They are beginning to understand whether we are going to move forward, expanding on the tremendous progress we've had in the past 8 years, whether we're going to move forward, not only keeping the peace, but extending freedom throughout the world; or whether we're going to turn back to policies that we left in 1953 and left them for good, I hope, and I think the American people [cheers and applause] And, my friends, every place I have been, traveling on the train through Pennsylvania and Ohio, in Michigan and in Illinois, the heartland of this country, traveling through Pennsylvania again today, and New Jersey yesterday, I see these tremendous crowds. I see this great enthusiasm, and I know why it is. It is not for me, as an individual, or for my running mate, Cabot Lodge. It is not, just simply for the party which we are proud to be representing, but it is for the principles for which we stand. It's for the kind of leadership which we give, and it's also because people are not only for what we are for, but they are against what our opponents are trying to foist off on the American people as new programs for the American people: [Cheers and applause.] Now, what is that choice? And I turn first to their program, and then I turn to ours. And in theirs, there is one I want to nail here, as I have nailed it in Erie and in Lancaster. I noted on my information sheet as I came to each of these three cities that when my opponent was traveling through these areas, he said, and I quote - he said, "The Republicans have always opposed social security." He knows that's a barefaced lie, and I say it right here today. [Cheers and applause.] He knows, as a Member of the House and the Senate, that he has voted, voted for the very proposals in the field of social security that have added 12 million to the rolls under President Eisenhower, that have expanded the coverage, that have raised the amounts of social security. He knows that social security has never had a better friend than the Eisenhower administration, and it will never have a better friend than the Nixon administration in the next 4 years as well. You can be sure of that. [Cheers and applause.] And to hold up to the people of this country on social security this specter that we oppose it and, therefore, would take it away - this is irresponsible, it's despicable, and the American people are going to show what they think of it on election day, as this kind of lie is nailed, as it should be, where it was made right here in this city of Syracuse. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let me turn to a problem very close to the hearts of every one in this audience. Incidentally, before I go on, the suggestion was made that your signs go down so the people could see in back. Just pull your signs down, please, so the people in the back can see. Thank you. Now, the second point that I want to make: In this great crowd are literally thousands of people who have been shopping today. What will you be deciding on election day, among many other things? I'm going to tell you, and this is going to be hard for you to believe, but it is the truth - the truth, mark my word - and look at the record to back it up. You will be voting as to what your prices are going to be in the years ahead, and if you should vote or if this election should turn out that our opponent will win, it will mean you will have voted to raise your food prices 25 percent here in Syracuse. What does that mean? It means, for example - and I grew up in a grocery store - I know what I'm talking about on this subject - it means that the price of a quart of milk will have to go ap 4 cents. It means the price of a loaf of bread will go up 2 cents. It means the price of a dozen eggs will go up 22 cents. It means the price of a pound of butter will go up 28 cents, and the same for a chicken. Now, why do I mention these things which seem so mundane in the midst of a great presidential campaign? Because there is a farm program, a farm program which is the most radical one which even Henry Wallace said was so radical that it was turned down during the administration in which he was a part, a farm program which will not help the farmer, because it will cut his acreage and, thereby, in the end, drive a million farmers from the farm, but it is one which not I, but the career employees of the Department of Agriculture have priced out and, my friends, can you afford - do you want to vote for - a 25-percent increase in your grocery bill? [Cries of "No."] And I say that is the answer of millions of Americans, including the farmers of America, because they, too, go to the grocery store. They, too, know that this is simply trying to buy their votes, and buy them at the same time of putting money in one pocket and taking more out of the other. This is an example of the kind of programs we have, and let me go further. You also are voting to raise your taxes and to raise your prices in another way. Fifteen billion dollars a year will be added to the Federal budget each year if my opponent is elected and keeps his platform promises - $15 billion a year. Now, in that connection, just to be completely fair, I want to point out that when he was in the State of New York a couple of days ago, he said that he was for a balanced budget and that he was against raising taxes, and he was for his program as far as it was adopted as the Democratic platform. Now, my friends, anybody who says he's for a platform that will add $15 billion a year to the Federal budget, is against raising taxes to pay for it, and is for a balanced budget - these three things at the same time - isn't certainly qualified to be President, because he doesn't understand simple high school economics. [Cheers and applause.] So, the question is: What part of the platform does he give up? Is he going to give up his farm program or his veterans' program or his education program or his health program, or he should tell the American people what taxes he's going to add. Why do I mention these things? I mention them, my friends, so you can see the choice. The choice is this, and I know whereof I speak: This is the most radical increase in spending ever offered by a candidate for the Presidency in history - $15 billion a year. It means higher taxes. It means higher prices. There isn't anyway you can do it with mirrors. I know this. He knows it, and the American people are going to show they know it by voting against that kind of a program and for a program that will produce real progress, but produce it without inflation - and that's what we offer to the American people in this election campaign. [Cheers and applause.] And what is our program? A program that will build more schools, a program that will build more hospitals, a program that will expand this economy and job opportunities for America, a program in all the fields of social welfare, as I have enunciated them one after another during the course of this campaign, a program which will move America forward, but, my friends, which will move America forward without robbing the people on pensions, without robbing the people who are on social security, without robbing the housewives who are trying to make the budget balance. This is the way to progress, and this is what America wants, and I can assure you this is what we will provide, and this is what we ask for in this campaign - the greatest progress that America can produce, but progress that is real, not unreal, progress that is responsible, progress in which we don't try to fool the people by saying, Look, we promise you this, but you don't have to pay for it, because, remember, it's not my money or his money, but yours. I know this, and our programs - why will they do the job, and do them with less of your money than his? And I'll tell you why. Because, my friends, we don't say that the answer to a problem every time is simply to lose faith in the people, not to leave the job to the individual, turn it over to the Federal Government, spend more money. We say the Federal Government has a responsibility to do those things that the States and individuals won't do, but we say the way to progress in this country primarily is for the Federal Government to encourage every individual to do whatever he can do to increase the productivity of this country, and that's what our programs do. [Cheers and applause.] And now, if I might turn to one other point, I've been talking about domestic issues up to this point. I now want to talk about the issue which Governor Rockefeller and Ken Keating will tell you, as they have told the people of New York many times in introducing me in my trips to this State, is more important than all the rest. It is the issue of survival of the Nation. It is the issue of peace without surrender. It is the issue of the survival of freedom. It's the issue of the survival of freedom not only for us, but the extension of freedom throughout the world. All these things sound so far away sometimes, here in Syracuse, or in Erie or in Lancaster, but, my friends, we can have the best social security and the best housing and the best jobs and it will make no difference if statesmanship fails to avoid the next war. It must not happen. It will not happen, and Cabot Lodge and I believe we have the kind of leadership that will avoid it happening, ass President Eisenhower has avoided it happening. [Cheers and applause.] Do I say it's going to be easy? Certainly not. It's going to mean that we're going to have to keep this country of ours strong. It seems that we're going to have to spend more for defense than we've been spending to meet the critical period that we have ahead of us. It means that we're going to have to be firm in our diplomacy. It seems that we're not going to be knocked off balance every time the Communists try to provoke us any place around the world. It means, in addition to that, that we not try just to hold the line, but that we try to extend freedom throughout the world, that we launch a great offensive for freedom, launch it not only through the United Nations, through the Organization of American States, but through developing new instruments of freedom in which freemen will sit down and work together, work together to resist communism; but, more than that, work together to produce progress and produce freedom for all the world. This is what we ask to work for - and I say we have something to offer in the way of credentials. For 7 years we have sat in the high councils of this administration. We have been through the fire of decision. We have participated in the discussions on Lebanon and Quemoy and Matsu and Trieste and all the rest, discussions that did avoid war on the one side and surrender on the other. We believe that at least we know what the problem is. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have never been fooled by him, and, knowing him, we can assure you that we will see to it that America will avoid, on the one side, the belligerency that could lead to war, and, on the other side, the weakness diplomatically that could lead to surrender. These are the things we offer to the American people on our side. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let's take a quick look at what are the credentials of our opponent. He says we need a new program. He says this has been a period of retreat and defeat, these last 7 years. He's just wrong about the administration. That's all. He meant the Truman administration, when we had the greatest defeat and retreat [cheers and applause] - an administration in which 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain, an administration in which we became involved in a war which President Eisenhower ended. No. I can say we know we have moved forward, and now the question is: Are we going to change direction? Are we going to risk the peace which we have earned? Are we going to risk the freedom which we have maintained? Are we going to risk it in the hands of one who three times in this very campaign has indicated that he would have made decisions during the hour of decision that would have been wrong for America, disastrous for the cause of peace and freedom - Quemoy and Matsu, the decision the President made in 1955 was right, right because he avoided the error that led to Korea, avoided taking the advice of men like Senator Kennedy who said, "Cut of a little freedom; give it to the Communists, and then we won't have a war." But the President knew that's what we tried with Korea, and it led to war, and we didn't do it, and I assure you we will never try to buy that kind of - certainly that kind of support in the event that we are dealing with the Communists, because we know that the moment that you make a concession without getting one in return, it does not lead to peace; it leads to surrender or war. And then again at the summit conference - what would he have done if he were there? Well, you know what he said. He criticized the President. The President refused to apologize and express regrets to Khrushchev. He said he could have. My friends this isn't Just a moot question. What if he had been President and done this And then Cuba, where all the newspapers in this country and in this continent, interpreted his remarks on Cuba to indicate intervention by the Government in that country, which would have brought disastrous consequences, lose our friends in America, lose our friends throughout the world, and invited the very Communists to come into this country that we do not want - all these things. My friends, three times he's had a chance. Three times he's shot from the hip. Three times he's been wrong. But somebody says, "But, Mr. Nixon, he's changed his mind. He now says he's for the President. He now says he agrees with the President on Quemoy, that he didn't really mean the President should have apologized, and that as far as Cuba was concerned, he always meant all the time he was really for what the President was, and that is standing morally for the right of people to be free." But, my friends, just let me say this one last thing: When you're a candidate, you can make a mistake and you can correct it the neat day. When you're President and you make a mistake, it's for keeps. I was there when we went into Lebanon. I remember the President pacing the floor. He knew that if he sent the troops in, it might risk war; but he knew if he didn't act that it would mean that communism would sweep through the Middle East and that it would not only risk war, it would inevitably bring it. And, so, he decided, he turned, he said, in the early hours of Monday morning. We've got to go in. The decision was right, just like so many he has made. But it was made after he thought. It was not made on the basis of simply shooting from the hip, and I say today that in this critical period we cannot afford to use the White House as a training school for a man who's trying to gain experience at the expense of the American people. [Cheers and applause.] There is your choice - experienced leadership, leadership that does not promise you, and I would never promise that life is going to be easy, that there are going to be no problems, but leadership that welcomes the challenge of these great times, leadership that says that America now comes into its period of its greatest destiny, and that we're going to meet it, and that we're going to lead the world to peace, without surrender, to freedom, without war. This is the true crusade we ask you to join, and this is what we ask you to support, and we thank you for coming out and starting us as you have tonight. Thank you.
Good evening. First I want you to know how much I appreciate your giving me some of your television time tonight. I know how precious this time is in the average family because my two daughters like to see these 7 o'clock programs. But I know you realize, too, that the decision you will be making just a week from today may be the most important decision you will ever make in your life. And that's why I want to talk to you about that decision tonight and for the next 3 nights as well at this very time. In speaking of this decision, it is one that is not just a decision to be made between two men who want to be President or between two political parties. It is a decision involving every home and every person in America as well as people throughout the world. It is a decision in which you, the people will, in effect, be voting the prices you will pay in the grocery store, the prices you will pay in the clothing store. You will be voting the taxes you will pay. You will also be voting for the policies which may or may not keep the peace and keep it without surrender in the years ahead. Tonight I want to talk first about problems at home, the problems of the average family, the problems of what I would call the family budget, and progress at home. Now here we have two diametrically points of view. I tell you tonight that I stand for programs that will build on the policies of the Eisenhower administration, policies which I believe have produced the greatest prosperity that America has ever had in any 8-year period. I believe we can build on those policies and expand progress by building on them. On the other side, my opponent offers a program which, in effect, rather than carrying America forward would take her back - take her back to policies we left in 1953. He would take her back to policies we left then because he says America has been standing still for the last 7½ years. Now I realize that this leaves you in somewhat of a predicament. I say one thing. He says exactly the opposite. Whom are you to believe? Well, you don't have to believe either one of us because you know what the truth is. I just suggest this: Look around you. Look around in your own community or consider your own situation, your own job, the wages you've received. And do you know what you will find? You will find that in the 7 Truman years wages went up but prices went up so fast at the same time that at the end of that period you had no real increase in take-home pay. You also found in that period that the Truman administration ended with a war. You found, in other words, that you did not have prosperity in that period without war. Now what has happened in this 7 years of our administration in which my opponent says we've been standing still? Well, if we've been standing still, we want more of it. You know that we have built three times as many schools in the past 7 years as in the previous 7 years. You know that we have built a great highway system. You know that we have built in America more hospitals, more houses than in any administration in history. You know, too, that there's been more progress in the field of civil rights, for example: not only more progress than in the previous administration but more than in the previous 20 years - more, in fact, than in the previous 80 years. You know, in other words, that this has not been a period in which America has stood still. Putting it in terms which all of us will understand, you know, too, that as far as real wages are concerned, they've gone up in this administration, and they stayed stagnant in that administration. We find, for example, that factory wages have gone up from $68 to $91 a week and it's a real increase because we have kept prices in check so that prices went up only one-fifth as much as they did in the 7 years that preceded it. In other words, we find that in the past 7 years we've had an increase of 15 percent in the real wages, in the take-home pay of the American wage earners in this country. So the argument about standing still doesn't stand up because you know better and my opponent fights the truth when he says that we've been standing still. But now we come to the future. What about the future? Here again I know that every family is concerned about the future. You're concerned about it because we've heard quite a few charges in this campaign, charges that terrible times are just around the corner unless we turn back to the policies that we left nearly 8 years ago. When I was in Detroit the other day I saw one of these charges at its worst, and I really mean its worst. I picked up a copy of the Detroit Free Press. As you will note [indicating] "U.S. Facing Slump, Kennedy Declares." And I suppose many of my listeners will say "Well, if the U.S. is facing a slump, we had better have a change." Are we facing a slump? That's what he says. But you know better. Let me prove it. In that very same paper, look at the headline above: "Ten-Day Auto Sales Set Record." You know what that means. That means that the American people have confidence in the future. They're buying more cars than ever before. That means we're going to have not only more sales of cars but more production of steel, and it means that our economy is going to move forward, move forward without inflation, because as long as the people have confidence, we will not have a recession; and it's only the politicians who want to get the jobs - the jobs, of course, in the White House, particularly - who would talk this country into a recession. I assure you we will not have one under our policies. I would have a question about it under theirs, as I will later point out. Now let us look at the exact choice that we have in this campaign. My opponent begins by saying we have been standing still. He then predicts that we're going to have a slump. And then he says what the things are that he offers for America. And you know what they all add up to? They add up to the most extravagant promises that have ever been made by a Presidential candidate in any campaign in our history - promising everything to everybody. Sounds good, doesn't it? You would like to have those promises kept. But let's look at the cost - $15 billion a year more would be required on the Federal budget in order to pay for these promises included in his platform and in his speeches - $15 billion a year more. Now you know of course who pays the bill. You do. The American people. The American taxpayers. But then we have got to be fair and accurate here. I recognize that my opponent has said in recent days that he does not favor an increase in taxes. He said that during one of our debates, you recall. He also says that as far as the future is concerned, he does not believe that his program will result in unbalancing the budget. In other words, what do we have here? He says that he is for a program which I say will cost $15 billion a year more at the Federal level, that he's against any increase in taxes and that he's for balancing the budget. Well, my friends, you can't be for all those things because you can't spend $15 billion a year more and still balance the budget without raising taxes or without deficit spending. What does this add up to? It means that if these programs go into effect we're going to have higher prices and higher taxes which all of the American people will have to pay. Let me just take one of these programs and outline what it would mean to you - the farm program. This is the most radical farm program ever foisted upon the American people in a political campaign or at any other time. Even Henry Wallace described it as a program so radical that it was turned down in the administration in which he was Secretary of Agriculture. What does it do? It doesn't help the farmers because it would drive a million farmers and farm workers from the farm. It would cut down their production by 40 to 50 percent in some area and in addition to that it would put over them approximately 50,000 more Federal police inspectors who would, in effect, tell them how much they could grow, what they could sell it for and what they could, do. This is what it would do to the farmers. It would cover every crop not just the five basic crops that are now covered by supports, but 250 crops. Whatever the farmer grew, chickens, tomatoes, anything, the Federal Government would be in there telling him what he could grow, how much and what he could sell it for. These are the things it would do to the farmer. What does it do to the consumer? And this is the farmer, also. It would raise food prices in the store by 25 percent. Now these are not my figures. These are the figures of the career employees of the Department of Agriculture who made a study of this program. And these career employees in the Department of Agriculture, not political employees, have indicated that if this program goes in, food prices will go up 25 percent. Do you know what that means? I do, because I grew up in a grocery store. That would mean 2 cents a loaf more for every loaf of bread. It would means 4 cents a quart more for every quart of milk. It would means 22 cents a dozen more for every dozen of eggs. It would means 28 cents more for every chicken you bought. It would mean 28 cents a pound more for every pound of butter you bought, and so on down the line. My friends, I say this isn't good for the farmers, and it isn't good for the consumers. It's wrong. It's the wrong way to solve a problem, and I say that because I know what it would do. I say also that a program that would add $15 billion to the budget is not good for the American people, because it would require a rise in our taxes and a rise in our prices as well. Why do I say this? Because I know it would work a terrible hardship on those trying to meet a family budget. I know it would work a particularly cruel hardship on the millions of people who are retired in this country, living on social security and pensions. And I know that these policies would bring our economy to a halt. They would risk the very recession that Senator Kennedy has so loosely and in a very demagogic way predicted. So I say to you that there is a way to progress, a way in which we can have better education without having Federal control of our education; in which we can have better housing; in which we can have improved medical care and medical care and insurance for our older people without socializing the medical institutions in this country, without compelling people to have health insurance unless they want it and giving them a choice, which is the American way of doing it; a program in which we can have progress in civil rights, which will move forward from the area in which we are presently finding ourselves. All these things we can have, my friends, and, in addition, we can have progress which will create more jobs for more Americans in this great period of the sixties which we are now entering. My programs will produce this kind of progress. And do you know why they will produce it? Because they are not based on turning everything over to Washington, to the Federal Government. They are based on the Federal Government encouraging and giving opportunity to millions of individual Americans to make their contributions to America's greatness. That is the way to progress in America. And so here is your choice in this field. Do you want to have progress as we offer it, progress without inflation, or do you want the promise of progress as he offers it, the promise of progress with inflation? I say, my friends, that this choice is the most important decision you will ever make in your life and I urge you: think before you vote and then vote for what is best for America and best for you. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. My friend, Johnny Crews, Governor Rockefeller, Congressman Derounian, my fellow candidates, and my fellow Americans here at this early morning breakfast in Brooklyn, I want to say, first of all, that I'm glad this is one of the biggest ballrooms in America. I don't know where you would all fit unless you could have had this ballroom to meet in this morning. [Cheers and applause.] Everybody asks: Now, Mr. Nixon, how is the campaign * * * People who will pick up this poll or that one, and read this or that. People will say we're ahead of the other one. I'll tell you who knows. * * * I want to tell you what happened. About 10 days ago - Nelson, remember when we were up here in New York? From that time on, this campaign has moved all over the country, and I want to tell you what I know. We have been since that time whistlestopping all through the heart of Pennsylvania, all through Ohio, for 2 days, in Michigan for a day, in Iowa for an evening meeting, in Illinois for 2 days. Yesterday we were back in Pennsylvania, in Erie, Pa., and Lancaster, Pa., and then yesterday evening we had a couple of meetings, one in Syracuse, N.Y., and then one in Rochester, N.Y. And I want to tell you about these meetings. These things you may not read in the press, but these things, if you read all the press, and read all the stories and put them together, you will find: In every one of these meetings, in every whistlestop, and I have perhaps made a hundred speeches in these last 10 days, we have had the biggest crowds ever seen at a political meeting. [Cheers and applause.] For example, in Erie, Pa., last night - you know how the wind blows and how cold it can be - we had a crowd * * * We had a crowd at the airport which the chief of police said was twice as large as they had in good weather. [Cheers and applause.] Let me just say this: These crowds mean something. They mean something for another reason, because it just isn't people out who are curious, people who want to see somebody who is Vice President, or his wife, which is a very good reason for coming out, I am sure. [Cheers and applause.] But these are people who are the most enthusiastic crowds I've ever seen. They're on the march. They're determined to win. They realize what would happen if we have a radical change in direction at home and if we go for inexperience abroad in this critical time. They realize what we have today. They realize we've kept the peace and kept it without surrender of principle or territory, and this is no time to use the White House as a training ground for a man to get experience. to lead the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] The people are beginning to realize, for example, after our television debate, that on three great issues, if my opponent had been President, he would have made a fatal error that might have led to war or surrender of territory, or both. At Quemoy and Matsu, where he disagreed with the President, and then again on Cuba, where he disagreed with the President; and then again on the Paris Conference. where he disagreed with the President. Of course, he says now, I didn't mean it. I was really for the President all along. I really didn't mean it. But, my friends, let me tell you this: A man who is a candidate can change his mind and nobody is the worse for it, but a man who is President, when he speaks, when he acts, it's for keeps - and that means that the President of the United States, when he comes up here to New York today, for what I know will be one of the greatest receptions, in Eisenhower weather, incidentally [cheers and applause] - and Eisenhower weather is victory weather, too; don't forget that. [Cheers and applause.] Let me tell you - I can tell you I have seen the President make the great decisions in these last years. I know that on Trieste; I know, for example, on the very great decisions, Quemoy and Matsu, the decisions on Vietnam, all the ones that he has made, that if a rash man and an impulsive man, and an inexperienced man, a man who shoots from the hip, a man who acts first and thinks second - that if that kind of a man had been President, we might not be here today. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I want to emphasize just one point: This is bigger than whether we're a member of this organization or that. The point that we have to bear in mind is that today America has to have, whatever party we may be members of, whatever organization we may be members of, the best two men for President and Vice President that our Nation can produce. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I realize that is a very arrogant comment, and I want to say I would be the last to presume to say I am the best man. I do not believe, as apparently my opponent does [cheers and applause] - I just want to say I do not believe, apparently as my opponent does, this is the time for greatness and I am the great man that America needs. I tell you I do know this: I do know that Cabot Lodge and I have been through the fire, the fire of decision. We have sat opposite Khrushchev, and we have never been fooled by him, and we never will be fooled by him. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I'm going to make a prediction. This is particularly for the benefit of this audience, and the press can listen, if they would like. A little intimate crowd like this cannot be off the record, but we'll keep it right on the record. People ask how is this election campaign going to come out? I want to tell you something: Every State in this Union today - this is an election such as we have never seen before in this country. There isn't a State, North, East, West, or South, that is not a battleground, in which people on our side are making the fight of their lives, and I want to say this: As I see this great tide rolling, as I see it rolling through the heartland of this country, in Pennsylvania, in Ohio, in Indiana, in Illinois, as I see it on the West Coast, as I see it in the South, as I have seen it up here in New York, I want to tell you that if we keep it rolling, because we're going up at the time they have run out of gas and are going down. [Cheers and applause.] In fact, the best proof they have run out of gas is that all we hear from them now is hot air - hot air - and more and more and more. [Cheers and applause.] And I say to you at this time - I say if we keep it going, we can have from the standpoint of electoral votes, one of the greatest victories in the history of America. That's what we're going to do. [Cheers and applause.] Now, so much for the campaign. I have more speeches to make later, which you will have an opportunity to hear, but I want to say something about some friends of mine up here. I don't mean now the Governor who has worked so splendidly with me, and in developing our platform, and with whom we will work after this election, work to strengthen the instruments of peace, strengthen the instruments of freedom, and may I say there is nothing more important than that, because it isn't just enough to talk peace; it isn't just enough to stand up to Khrushchev. What you need is to take the offensive, an offensive for the minds and the hearts and souls of men on both sides of the Iron Curtain. And that's what we are going to do. I don't want to talk about him at this time, but I want to talk about the men who are running at this time. I'm proud of them, I'm proud of every one of them. I'm proud of Francis Dorn. [Cheers and applause.] * * * * * * * * * My friends, I say to you: Here's a great team. Here's a team that has done well for New York. Here's a team that will speak well for America, and I promise you that I only hope I can be worthy of this team and be worthy of you for coming out and welcoming me as you have. Thank you very much.
Fiscal experts tell us my opponent's platform would cost upward of $15 billion more a year than we are now spending. If he were to try to raise this tremendous amount in new taxes, who would pay the bill! If anyone thinks the bill could be paid by a "soak the rich" policy, he is wrong. The Kennedy program is one of the cruelest and most vicious "soak the poor" programs ever advocated by any presidential candidate. And here, on the basis of figures available in the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is the proof. If all personal taxable income in excess of $100,000 a year were taxed 100 percent, the additional Federal revenue would be only about $300 million, or about 2 percent of what my opponent's platform would cost. If all personal taxable income in excess of $50,000 a year were taxed 100 percent, the additional Federal revenue would be only about $600 million, or about 4 percent of what my opponent's platform would cost. If all personal taxable income in excess of $25,000 a year were taxed 100 percent, the additional Federal revenue would be only $1.5 billion or about 10 percent of what my opponent's platform would cost. If all personal taxable income in excess of $15,000 a year were taxed 100 percent, the additional Federal revenue would be only about $3.1 billion or about 20 percent of what my opponent's platform would cost. If all personal taxable income in excess of $10,000 a year were taxed 100 percent, the additional revenue would be only about $5.6 billion or about 37 percent of what my opponent's platform would cost. These figures are as clear as their meaning is shocking. It is the millions of peoples in the lower income brackets - not the wealthy who would really pay the bill for my opponent's platform if he tried to finance it by new taxes. Even if he confiscated all taxable income above $10,000 a year, some $10 billion annually would have to come from those who can least afford new taxes - the millions upon millions of Americans who earn less than $10,000 a year. Senator Kennedy hopes by sheer repetition to convince Americans that they are in trouble in almost every department - world position, military strength, economic progress, scientific and educational advances. He, of course, represents himself as the modern Pied Piper who will pipe the troubles out of the land. We have listened to his piping in this campaign and it is clear what would happen. If he pursued the programs he had advocated domestically - programs which could only produce cruel inflation and Government interference with every aspect of our economic life - he could only pipe us into recession, or worse. If he pursued the policies abroad which he has suggested - apology to Khrushchev, retreat in the Pacific, open interference in Cuba - could only pipe us into grave international crises, or worse. Take a specific field: Senator Kennedy's campaign to talk us into a recession has now reached phase 2. If elected, he says, he will counsel with President Eisenhower about how to deal with it. It is quite a political gimmick. First he conjures up a recession - which we're not having - then he says if elected he will be glad to meet with President Eisenhower to see how to deal with it. The solution of Senator Kennedy's recession will come from the voters on November 8. If they do what I am fully confident they will do, he won't need to worry about holding such a conference because he will not be the new President and there will be no recession. The American people have an instinct that is seldom wrong. They know that the way to avoid a recession is to defeat Senator Kennedy and his grandiose schemes for tampering with an economic system that has given America in the past 8 years the greatest prosperity in history. The American people know what works and what won't work, and the people know that the strong probability is that the Senator's election to the Presidency would produce the very recession he constantly talks about. That's why they are not going to elect him. That's why his self-serving proposal for a conference with President Eisenhower is just plain silly. Senator Kennedy's latest proposal is like the story of the neighborhood boy who offered to talk with the fire chief about how to put out the fire he just started.
Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, Governor Rockefeller, my colleagues in the Congress, all of the distinguished guests and this great audience here, certainly this is one of the highlights of this campaign, probably the greatest day of the campaign, with the President of the United States right here with us campaigning in New York. [Cheers and applause.] And we had a great day yesterday. We were in Lancaster, Pa.; in Erie, Pa.; in Rochester, N.Y., and in Syracuse, N.Y. I want to tell you something about this campaign. As anyone who has been through national campaigns can tell you, there comes a time when a tide begins to run - and that time in our campaign came about 10 days ago, as we left New York City, went down through Pennsylvania, then got on a train last Monday and went through the heartland of the country, 2 days in Pennsylvania, 2 days in Ohio, whistlestopping then through Michigan, then down through Iowa, and then 2 days in Illinois, back again to Washington, then up to Pennsylvania, and then to New York last night and then here today and I'll tell you what I have observed with regard to this trip up to this point. At every stop that we made we found the biggest crowds they had ever had in the political history of those particular places. [Cheers and applause.] But, what is even more important, my friends, these crowds were out to win. They're enthusiastic, and they are going to win. [Cheers and applause.] And for the benefit of all present here I can say that I sense this great spirit in the State of New York, in Rochester, in Syracuse, this morning in Brooklyn, and now here out in Nassau, and I say to you that if you continue this spirit, if you continue to carry it to your neighbors and your friends in these last critical days, when this election will be decided in New York, when it will be decided in the Nation, there's no question about the outcome on November 8. It will be a great victory not just for a man or a party, but for America and the whole free world - and that's what we're working for. [Cheers and applause.] Now, you're going to have opportunities later today to hear me and later in this campaign, on television, at a great rally tonight, and also during the course of the other events which you may attend. I have a privilege which is one I have had several times in these last 7 years, the privilege of introducing the man who has led this country away from one of the worst messes we've ever been in to the period today in which every man and woman is proud to be an American citizen, and proud of his and her President in Washington, D.C. [Cheers and applause.]. Before I do so, I think it is well to keep the record straight, keep it straight with regard to the accomplishments of this administration, because you must judge my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and me by the fact we have been part of this administration. We've had a rare opportunity. We have been in the presence of the President. We have been with him when the great decisions have been made and, therefore, as far as those decisions are concerned, we must take responsibility for them, and we are proud to do so. So, I say to you today, in introducing him, it is well to keep the record straight, and as we flew by helicopter over New York and up to this great area here and the plane landed it occurred to me I could think of no better answer to one of the silliest comments that has been made by our opponents during the course of this campaign, and that is that America has stood still for 7 years and now we've got to get her going again. Well, believe me, anybody who says America is standing still hasn't been traveling through America, I can assure you of that, as I have. [Cheers and applause.] Look at this great area here. It was built in the last 7 years. Shopping centers; highways; three times as many schools; more housing; more hospitals; the greatest progress in civil rights not only in this administration - more than in the previous 20 years, more than in 80 years. My friends, we can be proud not only that President Eisenhower has restored dignity and decency to the Presidency, but that he has led America to the greatest progress we've ever had in our history. [Cheers and applause.] And, my friends, we can also be proud of another thing: Cabot Lodge spoke of the great and awesome burdens of a President. I have never been one in this campaign to say: This is a time for greatness, and I am the man who is great. I know that that is a decision that only the American people know in their hearts, in their minds and in their souls, and you will determine it. I know, too, a man can be great only as the people are great, only as he meets the challenge of the times; but, my friends, I want to say this: I have known greatness in the sense that I have seen the President, as Cabot Lodge has seen him, make decisions, decisions that avoided war, decisions that avoided surrender, decisions that have got us out of one war, have kept the peace without surrender - and, believe me, that's what we're going to give you if we get the opportunity after November 8, because that's what the American people want. [Cheers and applause.] And I can only add to what Cabot Lodge has said: It is very easy to do as our opponents have - to say the President was wrong on Quemoy and Matsu in not surrendering two islands of freedom; he was wrong in not apologizing to Khrushchev; he was wrong in what he did in Cuba, and then to take it back the next day. My friends, it is very easy to do that when you're a candidate; but, my friends, when the President sits in that oval room in the White House, and when he decides something, it's for keeps. He can't take it back, because once he does it then the decision rocks around the world. I have seen decisions like that made. I was there the morning that the decision on Lebanon was made. I was there when Trieste was decided. I was there when the decisions on Iran, all these others that have kept the peace, and kept it without surrender, were made and, my friends, this I know: That America at this time cannot afford to use the White House as a training ground to give experience to somebody at the expense of the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] Do I suggest to you that there are going to be no troubles if we are elected? No. We know the Communists. We know they are ruthless. We know that they want not just Quemoy. and Matsu, not just Formosa, but the world, and we know that the problems will be difficult, but this I pledge to you: We have been through the fire of decision. We know what it takes. We know that it takes firmness and strength, but never belligerence. We know that it takes what the President has always said - go the extra mile for peace and disarmament, but never make a deal which would weaken the United States and those who are guarding the citadels of freedom as against the Soviets. [Cheers and applause.] We know, in other words, that what America needs to keep the peace, what America, needs to have progress is the kind of leadership that the man who is next going to speak to you has given, the man who saved America. in 1953 from what we were in then, the man who has always made us proud of our country, the man who is now the symbol of peace and freedom for the whole world. I only hope that Cabot Lodge and I can be worthy of the United States and worthy of the man under whom we have worked, President Eisenhower. Thank you. [Cheers and applause.]
Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, Governor Rockefeller, Senator Keating, the distinguished guests here on the platform and this great audience here in New York: New York, of course, is known throughout the world as the world's largest city, as the city which can always outdo any other city in the world in anything, and now today, after this magnificent reception, as we motorcaded up to Herald Square and this tremendous meeting here, I have to believe it. This is the greatest meeting in the campaign, and we thank you for that. [Cheers and applause.] And because I know that this meeting is one that is not only for me and for my colleague, Cabot Lodge, but also it is one in which this great city, with its full heart, pours out its gratitude to President Eisenhower, I want to speak for a moment - I would like to speak for a moment - about the privilege Cabot Lodge and I have had in these last 7½ years to serve under the President, with the President, in working for what we believe was best for America and best for the world, and in speaking of that privilege, it is necessary for me to begin by setting the record straight as to what happened in those 7½ years. You know, we've been hearing over and over again, like a broken record, for months, that America has stood still in the Eisenhower years and that we need to get America going again. [Cheers and applause.] Well, let me say this: I have traveled now to 47 States. By the end of this week I will have been in 50 States, and that is all of the States of this Union. It means more States than any candidate has visited ever before, and only because the President didn't have 50, he couldn't go to 50. I want to say this: I have seen America. I saw it today. I saw it in Westchester. I saw it in Nassau. I saw it in downtown New York. Why do they say America is standing still? Look around you. Look at the schools. Look at the shopping centers. Look at the highways. Look at your own lives. This has been the greatest period of progress in history. [Cheers and applause.] So, my friends, the reason why the American people are going to reject our opponents and are going to elect us, is that we fight for the truth, and the people know the truth, because the people live the truth, and it ---- [ Cheers and applause.] And then there's one other thing I want to set straight: I am getting sick and tired of hearing this constant whimpering and yammering and wringing of the towel with regard to the poor United States. Oh, under Eisenhower, they say, everything's gone to pot. Our education is now second. Our science is second. We're second in space. We're running down in our economy and are going to be second there. Our military strength is being frittered away, and over across the way the great Soviet Union, as Mr. Stevenson said recently - and I quote from Pravda which quoted him - and over across the way we find the Communist world looking more dynamic than the American world. Listen, my friends, I have been to Russia, and I have seen it; I have been to the United States, and I have seen it, and there is no reason for a second-rate psychology on the part of any American. [Cheers and applause.] Yes, by all means, one of the things that makes America great is that we do criticize our faults, and we improve. One of the things that makes America great is that in a campaign we hit hard; we discuss the issues, but, my friends, I say to you that the people who are asking for the opportunity to cross new frontiers should not be talking about giving up the frontiers we've already got around the world. [Cheers and applause.] I say, too, that those who ask to be captain of the team should not be running down the team of the opposition as well as the people in America. [Cheers and applause.] What is the fact? Yes, America is not a perfect country. It's ,just the best country in the world. [Cheers and applause.] America is not a deficient country. Our education has certain deficiencies, and we have a program which will move it forward, but it is simply the best education you can get for more people than any place in the world. And the same can be said in every field I have mentioned, and it's time, I say, whether we're Democrats or Republicans or Independents, to speak up for America, speak up for America, and win the battle for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men everywhere. [Cheers and applause.] Now, there is one other thing I want to say and I will give you the opportunity I know you're looking forward to in hearing the President. One other thing: I was very interested to note as we came into this great square the sign on Macy's - the greatest department store in the world. I thought of all the products that were sold in Macy's. I remember when I came back from overseas and we were stationed in New York for about 4 months, one of the most exciting times we ever had. We had a little apartment over on West 93d Street, and every night we used what little savings we had to go to a show. We sat in the balcony, you know - incidentally, pretty close seats up there in that Metropolitan, I can assure you. We saw the shows. We did everything. But also we saw these great stores, and, you know, you can buy anything in Macy's as you know. I want to tell you what Macy's has to do with the President, a candidate for the Presidency, and a candidate for the Vice Presidency. My friends, today you have a fateful choice to make. Are we going to build on the progress that we've made and gone forward or are we going to go back to policies that we left 7½ years ago that were a mess in Washington? [Cheers and applause.] My friends, there are people who say, "But we should go forward," and I have had people say to me, "Mr. Nixon, why don't you, for the sake of getting elected - why don't you make a few more promises? Why don't you promise to spend more money than your opponent? After all, you don't have to worry. It's not your money." And that's right. That's why I don't make the promises, because it's your money and I have a responsibility to you and to the American people. [Cheers and applause.] How much is going to be spent? And this I concede: My opponent will spend more - $15 billion a year more. Now, what does that have to do with Macy's, the price of groceries, the price of clothing in Macy's, the price of furniture in Macy's? I will tell you what it has to do. If you spend to keep the promises that have been made in my opponent's platform and in this campaign, the prices of everything that Americans will buy are going to go up and up and up. Let's take food prices - a farm program which is so radical that even Henry Wallace said it was too radical for him to accept when he was in the Department. A farm program that would be disastrous for the farmer because it would cut his acreage and send a lot of Federal inspectors to tell him what to grow and what he could sell it for, but a farm program - and I am not giving just my opinion, but the opinion of the nonpolitical, career experts in the Department of Agriculture - a farm program that would raise the price of all the groceries, of all the food, in this country by 25 percent. My friends, do we want a 25-percent increase in our grocery bill? [Cries of "No!"] Do we want to pay off these promises and pay it in higher pries and higher taxes ? [Cries of "No!"] Well, there's a way to do it, and that's to go with Nixon and Lodge. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I have one other point, and this is one that I can only speak of in New York and only after the reception that we have seen. People often say to me: What runs through your mind, Mr. Nixon, when you see a great throng of people like this? What runs through your mind when you see, of course, a ticker-tape parade as we have just seen? Many things run through your mind. Above all, you realize what a tremendous responsibility the President of the United States has to all of these people, these people who have confidence in him, these people who have faith in him, these people who work for him, and he must never let them down. And another thing that ran through my mind today was this: This city of New York is not just New York; it's all the world. America is all the world. Who are the people who make America? I saw them on the streets today. This is no master race. Americans came from all the continents, from all the religions, from all the countries of the world, and we saw them all today, and that's why we're grateful - and we tap the best creative energies of all the people of the world. What does this have to do with the presidential campaign? Simply this: One of the greatest responsibilities of a President, of the next President, as it has been with this President, is to see to it that we That means we must. fight not only in government, but in our churches, in our schools, in our homes, to see that all the young people of America realize what a great country this is; but also to see that they realize that hatred and prejudice of any kind has no place in America any time in an election or any other time. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, there are things on which you can have disagreement, and I realize * * * you know it, and I know it. But there is one thing I can say about my colleague and myself, that my opponent can't say about him and his colleague: We stand together on the great issue of human rights for all Americans. We don't speak with two voices. [Cheers and applause.] I must say this: I am proud that I can bring my colleague here to a ticker-tape parade in New York to ride with me; and my opponent couldn't do that and wouldn't dare do it. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, we stand together, standing together on issues greater than a party, as great as America, itself, and we stand together today in gratitude, in gratitude to a man who has served this Nation 50 years, a man who has never let his country down, a man who got us out of a war and has kept us out of other wars by the greatest wisdom I can testify a man can have, a man who is the symbol of peace, of hope, and liberty for all the world. I am proud and Cabot is proud and Nelson is proud that we have been serving with him and have been trained by him, and I only hope that we can be worthy of him and of the great American people.. I present now the President of the United States to you. [Cheers and applause.]
Good evening. I should like to tell you about one of the most exciting and thrilling experiences of my life, which occurred right today in New York City. Along with President. Eisenhower and Ambassador Lodge, we rode up Broadway and Fifth Avenue. Over a million cheering people were there to greet us. I wait to tell you what went through my mind as I saw these people. I thought of the. fact that our people come from all the nations of the world and that one of the reasons we are a great people is that we bring the best people here and then give them their opportunity to develop their talents to the full. I also thought of something else, something I am sure is on the minds of every person in America and every person in the world today, for that matter. I realized that if just one atomic bomb were to strike New York it would wipe out this greatest city in the world with all the people in it practically. This could happen, but it must not happen. And I say tonight that the greatest issue in this campaign, the one which should concern every voter more than any of the others, is: Which of the two teams of candidates can best keep the peace, keep the peace for America and the world, and keep it without surrender of principle or territory? On this issue you will make a fateful decision, a choice that you will make next Tuesday, because the choice is between two very different and opposing points of view. We have, in the first instance, Ambassador Lodge and myself, who have been part of this administration, for 7½ years have worked under the President, who have sat in on the decisions and participated in the discussions leading to the great decisions in that period; and then you have our opponents, who offer a change of leadership, who are critical of what has been done in these 7½ years, who believe that we need a new direction in foreign policy. And so, you have to decide which way will America turn. Shall we build on the principles that have kept the peace without surrender for the last 7 years or shall we change to new, untried leadership which says: The past has failed. Therefore, we must have new leadership for tile future. Well, first, I think it's necessary to examine the charge, and the charge, of course, is - and it's been repeated over and over again - that the Eisenhower years in the field of foreign policy have been years of retreat and defeat for America. My friends, there's only one thing about that statement. It refers to the wrong administration. It was the Truman administration that, of course, were the years of the greatest retreat and defeat for America and the causes of freedom that we ever had in the history of the world. You recall 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain in that period. You remember at the end of those years we were in a bloody war in Korea that cost us 140,000 American casualties, a war that was without end and at that time seemed without purpose. And you know what happened. President Eisenhower ended that war and has avoided other wars in this period. And, so, we cannot say that the charge holds up. Now, the question is: Where do we go from here? How can we keep the peace in the future? Well, let me tell you first how it has been kept, how we have been able to learn what peace demands in this 7½ year period. There have been instance after instance in which we could have been involved in war, but where wise and forceful and decisive leadership has avoided that terrible possibility. There was a situation in Trieste involving Yugoslavia and Italy - settled without war. There was a situation in the Philippines in which we had Communist guerrillas threatening a friendly government to the United States - settled without war. There was a situation in Indochina where we had a civil war raging - and finally settled without war. There was a situation in Iran where there was a pro-Communist government for a time, and that now has been settled with a friendly government to the United States in power in that country. There was a situation in the Formosa Straits area. You have heard a lot about that in this campaign, but the important thing is that it's been settled and that it has been settled without war - at least up to this time - and I believe it will continue to be in that category if we continue the right kind of policy that we've been following in that particular area. And, then, of course, more recently we have the situation in Cuba. We have the situation in the Congo. We have others, too many even to describe, but in each one of these that I have mentioned if we had leadership that was inexperienced, if we had leadership that shot, from the hip, if we had leadership that made the wrong decision, the United States and the whole world might have been plunged into war. And I say to you tonight that the American people, therefore, will be eternally grateful to President Eisenhower for providing the kind of leadership that avoided war and avoided surrender, despite the great problems that we had, because - let's understand just one thing now: The world is not going to change as far as problems are concerned. The Communists are going to continue to stir up trouble all over the world. The question is: What leaders are experienced enough, what leaders are strong enough, what leaders understand the Communists well enough, knowing how to deal with them, to deal with them without involving us in war and at the same time without surrendering to them either principle or territory? Now, when we turn to our opponent, what do we find? We find that he has disagreed with the President, disagreed with him on Quemoy and Matsu, where he wanted to deny the President the power to defend those two islands in the President's duty to defend Formosa, our ally. We find that he disagreed with the President in his conduct at the Paris Conference, and there again is another instance; Berlin, which has been a tinderbox, which could have always exploded into war, and war has been avoided, but there again at the Paris Conference, you recall, Mr. Khrushchev broke it up. The President refused to apologize to him for the U-2 flights. My opponent said he could have apologized, could have expressed regrets. I think the President was right. I think my opponent was wrong. And more recently, in Cuba where he says that our policy of quarantining Mr. Castro is too little and too late, and where he advocated a policy which universally was interpreted as Government intervention in the affairs of that country, a policy which would have lost us every friend in Latin America, because it would have broken treaties with all of those countries, and a policy which, if carried out, would have invited war in this hemisphere, because certainly, if our Government had intervened, the Communists would have had a good excuse for coming in. Now, on all three of these points I recognize that Mr. Kennedy has said he has changed his mind, that he now supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu, that as far as Cuba is concerned, he didn't intend it to mean the way it sounded, and that in the field of the Paris Conference, that he agreed that the President, perhaps, conducted himself the right way under the circumstances; but, my friends, that isn't enough. When you're a candidate you can say something, make a mistake, and correct it the next day and nobody is the worse for it. But when you're President of the United States, when you speak or act as President, it's for keeps. You can't take it back, and the decision that you make must be the right one, because, if it's the wrong one, you run the risk of war, the risk of surrender, and in each of these three instances, I believe that if my opponent had been President and had made the decisions the way he indicated he would have made them, it would have risked war or surrender for the United States in those particular areas. And I ask you: Can we afford to use the White House, in effect, as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the country? Let me tell you now what I believe we can do, what Cabot Lodge, my colleague, and I will do if you give us the opportunity to lead this country in the next 4 years. First of all, we shall keep this country strong militarily, and I shall discuss that in my broadcast tomorrow. We shall keep the country strong economically and expand our economy. I shall discuss that also in one of these future broadcasts at this time in this week. But, in addition to that, we will follow the firm, strong line and diplomacy which President Eisenhower has followed. What do I mean by that? I mean that we will always be willing to go the extra mile, as he has been willing to go, to negotiate for disarmament, to negotiate for reducing tensions, but we will always recognize that in dealing with the Communist dictators or any dictators, that giving them an inch doesn't mean that they will take a mile. They will take the whole world. What I mean by that is this: What we have to recognize is that in dealing with Hitler and then with Stalin and now with Khrushchev or Mao Tse-tung, that those who believe that surrendering a little territory here or there at the point of a gun doesn't really in the long run do any harm and that it might avoid war, are engaging in exactly the wrong kind of thinking. That's what led to the Korean war, because the Communists, for example, do not want just Quemoy and Matsu. They don't want just Formosa. They want the world. And that's why if we want peace, we must be firm, always willing to negotiate, but never willing to concede unless we get concessions which are equal in return. But we won't stop here. We recognize that it is not enough just to hold the line for peace. Remember, we recognize that if we are going to have the kind of a world we want for our children and our grandchildren, that we must extend freedom, extend it throughout the world, and extend it without war, and we ask you to join us m a great crusade, a crusade which America will lead, a crusade in which we will strengthen the instruments of peace like the United Nations and the Organization of American States, a crusade in which we will strengthen the instruments of freedom and to build new ones throughout the world, a crusade in which we hold up as an ideal to all people on both sides of the Iron Curtain the hope and eventually the reality that they, too, have a right to be free, as we enjoy freedom here in the United States. And, finally, my friends, may I give you this one word of faith: I know that we can have peace. I know that we can have freedom. I know it because I have seen the world, and the people of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain want peace. They want freedom. I remember on our trip to Russia as we were driving through the Ural Mountains in the countryside one day, schoolchildren on the side of the road threw flowers into our car and shouted in English, "Friendship; friendship." My interpreter said that the first English word taught to Russian children is the word "friendship." Now, this doesn't mean that the Communist leaders are going to relent in their desire to conquer the world, but it does mean that the people on both sides of the Iron Curtain want peace, and it is our responsibility to lead them to peace, and we ask you for the opportunity to assume that great task. Thank you very much.
Vice President NIXON. Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, Governor Rockefeller, this great audience here in New York, both inside and outside the Coliseum, and this audience on television and radio: I can only say that I am always glad to give up my time for the President of the United States, Dwight D. Eisenhower. And in that connection, I noted, incidentally, that my opponent had some words to say of a complaining nature, apparently, about the fact that the President was supporting Cabot Lodge and me so vigorously. Just let me say this: I'd be worried if I were him, because if I had Truman on my side and my opponent had Eisenhower on his side [Applause]. And now our time is up. I just want to say this this has been the greatest day in the campaign and it has started us to a great victory in New York and victory in the Nation. [Applause.] Now my time is up, now, let's go. (Music and cheers.) Thank you very much. (Music and cheers.) (End of broadcast.) * * * on every billboard, "This is the time for greatness" - doesn't he know we have a great President of the United States in Dwight Eisenhower. [Applause and cheers.] Second, the continued assertion that in the 7½ years that President Eisenhower has been at the helm of this country America has been standing still. Doesn't he know that that's what we were doing when Eisenhower took over, but we've been moving since then. [Cheers.] And third, the constant reference to the fact that the policies of this administration in the foreign field have been characterized (and I quote him exactly without notes), I quote him exactly [cheers] --- have been policies of "retreat and defeat and stagnation.": My friends, the words are all right but they apply to the wrong administration - that exactly describes Harry Truman. [Cheers.] You see, the American people know that the 7 Truman years were the years of the greatest retreat and defeat that freedom has ever had - 600 million people going behind the Iron Curtain. And also they know that the Eisenhower years have been years in which we stopped the defeats, stopped the retreats, stopped the war and leave been launching an offensive for peace and freedom throughout the world. [Cheers.] And then, the other point that I make is this. I resent the assertion - made over and over again - that if we hadn't * * * as we reached the end of this term of office of a great President of the United States, that we've allowed America to run downhill, that we're second in education, we're second in science, we're second in space, we have the most crowded slums, we have the most crowded schools and the worst slums - all these are exact quotes from speeches that he's made - they're all false and I say that the American people are tired of having him or anybody else run down the United States of America. [Cheers.] After thorough consideration - advisedly - I want to say that I don't think of anything more despicable or irresponsible than my opponent's reference in the last few days in this campaign [cheers] - wait 'til you hear what I'm going to say - to his reference to his prediction that the United States faces a slump or a recession. Listen, I was in Detroit the other day. I picked up a copy of the Detroit Free Press. There was an 8-column head in that paper that said: "Kennedy Predicts Slump." You know what that means? You know what that does to millions of people in this country? It strikes fear into their hearts and it's that kind of talk that could bring the very slump that nobody wants. And you know what was in that same headline - right above it - an 8-column head? "New Car Sales for the Last Week the Biggest in the History of the United States." [Cheers.] Now, my friends, somebody's wrong here. It's either the millions of people who are buying new cars who have faith in America - and that's an indication they don't think--- (NOTE.- Talk breaks off here abruptly; nothing else recorded on this tape.)
  Vice President RICHARD M. NIXON,  Waldorf Astoria Hotel,  New York, N.Y.: All Americans applaud your recent statement outlining a program to liberalize our immigration laws. Especially encouraging are your proposals to double the number of persons admitted each year to the United States, and to make available unused portions of some countries' quotas for the benefit of nationals desiring to come to the United States from other countries having oversubscribed quotas. Because, however, I am particularly interested in the pressing human need to reunite family groups - a need which you acknowledged in your recent statement - I wish you would explain in detail your plans for achieving this vitally important goal. CHRISTOPHER DEL SESTO Governor of Rhode Island. DEAR GOVERNOR DEL SESTO : I share completely your belief that the reunification of family groups is of paramount importance. As you know, the administration has already taken forward steps in this direction but the need now is for immediate action to solve the whole problem and that is what I propose to recommend as soon as the Congress convenes in January. Sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, and aged parents - long separated - have been waiting year upon year, patiently and hopefully, for a chance to join their blood relatives in the United States, a chance which has been denied to most of them. Family members in the United States want nothing more than to take these same relatives into their own homes and, where necessary, to provide them with employment opportunities. The family members waiting abroad, therefore, would not be coming to the United States as strangers in a new land where, all alone they might face formidable difficulties in adjusting to a new language, to new customs, and to a totally new environment. Rather they would be welcomed into established households, they would be materially assisted in their economic needs, and the whole process of their integration and assimilation into the American community would be eased and quickened - to say nothing of the heartfelt joy and happiness which all such family members would feel with the arrival of loved ones from abroad. Under the McCarran-Walter Act, thousands of U.S. citizens - including those of Australian, Hungarian, Greek, Israeli, Italian, Japanese, Lebanese, Philippine, Portuguese, Spanish, and Yugoslav extraction - were encouraged to file applications to sponsor the entry of their relatives into this country. They filed these applications and many have been waiting for years, and are still waiting, for their relatives to arrive. They wait in vain because their relatives, except for a few, have been unable to come to the United States and cannot come here. The hopes that were raised by the McCarran-Walter Act have proved a cruel disappointment. Today there are thousands of family members who are registered, or included in registrations, on lists of over-subscribed quotas. To reunite these people with their relatives in the United States, we must have special legislation that will quickly, solve this whole problem by bringing such people into this country without regard to quotas. I will therefore recommend in January that this problem be handled by a law dealing specifically with it.  RICHARD NIXON.
Senator Kennedy hopes by sheer repetition to convince Americans that they are in trouble - trouble in almost every department - world position, military strength, economic progress, scientific and educational advances. He, of course, represents himself as the modern Pied Piper who will pipe the troubles out of the land. We have listened to his piping in this campaign and it is clear what would happen. If he pursued the programs he has advocated domestically - programs which could only produce cruel inflation and Government interference with every aspect of our economic life, he could only pipe us to recession or worse. If he pursued the policies abroad which he has suggested, apology to Khrushchev, retreat in the Pacific, open interference in Cuba, he could only pipe us into grave international crisis or worse. Take a specific field: Senator Kennedy's campaign to talk us into a recession has now reached phase 2. If elected, he says, he will counsel with President Eisenhower about how to deal with it. It is quite a political gimmick. First he conjures up a recession - which we're not having - then he says if elected he will be glad to meet with President Eisenhower to see how to deal with it. The solution for Senator Kennedy's recession will come from the voters on November 8. If they do what I am fully confident they will do, he won't need to worry about holding such a conference because he will not be the new President and there will be no recession. The American people have an instinct that is seldom wrong. They know that the way to avoid a recession is to defeat Senator Kennedy and his grandiose schemes for tampering with an economic system that has given America in the past 8 years the greatest prosperity in history. The people know what works and what won't work and the people know that the strong probability is that the Senator's election to the Presidency would produce the very recession he constantly talks about. That's why they are not going to elect him. That's why his self-serving proposal for a conference with President Eisenhower is just plain silly. Senator Kennedy's latest proposal is like the story of the neighborhood boy who offered to talk with the fire chief about how to put out the fire he just started.
Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, Governor Rockefeller, my colleagues from the House, Bob Barry, and Ed Dooley, all of the distinguished guests here and this great audience at the airport, one of the things Pat and I have often said as we have been campaigning through this country is this: That all of the crowds impress us and make us feel very humble in your presence, but the one that impresses us perhaps the most is a crowd at an airport, because there is no worse place to come to and park and we thank you for coming, as you have. [Cheers and applause.] This airport crowd, I am sure, is an indication of a great spirit in Westchester. We need a record vote in Westchester, and you're going to give it to us on November 8. [Cheers and applause.] Now, I have a very great privilege today, and that is to introduce our guest of honor, but before doing so, I would like to say just a word about some issues in this campaign, a word about them which you, who will not be able to attend our later meetings, might possibly be interested in. In the first place, I think that in this last week in the campaign, it's time to lay it on the line with regard to the charges and the counter-charges, and see what the truth is; and all we have to do is to tell the truth. [Cheers and applause.] They can tell all the falsehoods they want about us. We'll tell the truth about them, and that'll be enough. We can be sure of that. [Cheers and applause.] Now, point No. 1: I'm proud, and Cabot Lodge is proud, and Nelson Rockefeller is proud - and, you know, we're all proud, because we all work under and with the President of the United States, and we're proud of the record of this administration. [Cheers and applause.] Now, a lot has been said about the fact that we haven't had any experience. We've been ridiculed a bit. That's all right. That's for you to decide, Republicans, Democrats, and Independents. All that I can say is this: For 7½ years, Cabot Lodge and I have had the opportunity of sitting in the high councils of this administration, in the Security Council, in the Cabinet, in the discussions on foreign and domestic problems over which the President has presided and then decided. And I can say, too, that just having that opportunity puts you through the fire of decision. It makes you realize the tremendous burden of the decisions a President makes. It also makes you realize that you can't shoot from the hip, that you can't make rash statements, that you can't make impulsive statements, that you can't lose your tamper. You can't do all these things Why? Because you've got to think of people like here in Westchester. You've got to think of all those homes. You've got to think of all those homes I saw as we flew by helicopter from Brooklyn, then out to Nassau, and then to Westchester. You've got to think of the great masses of people I have seen in 47 States, and by the end of this week it will be 50 States - the only candidate for President ever to travel to 50 States. [Cheers and applause.] Now, Mr. President, that's no reflection on you, because there were not 50 States when you campaigned. [Cheers and applause.] Now, my friends, when you see that, it makes you think of the responsibility that you have to see that the children in these homes grow up in a life of peace, without surrender. It makes you think of the problems of the people in those homes, their concern about their everyday problems, their concern also about the problems of the world and this Nation, and I just want to say that the opportunity that we have had in these last 7½ years has been one that we could not gain in any other way. I don't say that it makes us infallible. I do say that it gives us the opportunity to serve the people in a more effective way than we could have done had we come into this without that experience. Now, the second point: I said I was proud of this administration, and I am getting sick and tired of hearing people say that we've been standing still for the last 7½ years in the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Now, my opponent hasn't traveled to as many States as I have. I can see why he avoids some of the Southern States, for good reason; but, be that as it may [cheers and applause] and also I can see why Lyndon Johnson avoids the Northern States, for good reason [cheers and applause] but all that I can say is: If he had been traveling around America, at least half as much as I have, he knows that America has been moving forward. He knows we had the greatest progress in these 7½ years in every field that we've ever had in our history. [Cheers and applause.] Look, let's talk about schools a moment. Look at your Westchester. You have the highest teachers' salaries. You have the greatest school building program, and you can be proud of it, and that's America. It isn't what the Federal Government does. It's what the people of America do that makes progress in this country. [Cheers and applause.] Yes, the Federal Government has a responsibility, but primarily to bring out the best, to give the opportunity for people to make their contribution to America's greatness. So, we move forward. Three times as many classrooms built; 20 percent more housing; more hospitals; more highways; a great new program. Take, for example, the question of social security. I noticed a statement the other day as I was traveling through the Pennsylvania-New York area, that our opponent was saying this administration and the Republicans had always opposed social security, and then they said, "They're trying to wreck social security, and Mr. Nixon is leading the wrecking crew." That's a paraphrase, a pretty good one of what they said. Now, let's get this on the record right now. You know what? We've had the greatest expansion of social security in this administration of any since it started - 12 million people added; benefits increased - and I want to say this: If our opponents go in with their program that would increase spending by $15 billion, which would raise taxes and raise prices, and a farm program that would raise the cost of food in the grocery store 25 percent, that will wreck the people on social security as nothing has ever wrecked it in the history of this country. [Cheers and applause.] And I'm getting tired of people who say: Why is President Eisenhower always talking about the budget? Why isn't he talking about people? My friends if the President of the United States doesn't defend that Federal fidget, doesn't see to it that every dollar is spent that needs to be spent, but not one that doesn't need to be spent, you cannot balance the family budget - and I say to you, at the present time, we have a "pied piper" traveling the land, a "pied piper" who says, "Come my way," and he says, "a promise for everything for everybody, $15 billion it will cost, but don't worry about that. I'm not going to raise your taxes, I'm going to balance the budget, and also I'm still going to keep my promises." Now, look, my friends, you cannot spend $15 billion a year more and at the same time balance the budget and not raise taxes. Any body who says that is an economic ignoramus who isn't fighting to be President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I want to put this right on the line, and I say it to all of the people here. I say it to the Democrats, to the Independents, to the Republicans; This issue is greater than any party. This issue is the future of the American home. When you vote on election day, you are voting what your prices are going to be in the grocery store. You are voting what your prices are going to be in the clothing store. You are voting what your taxes are going to be. And the question is: Do we build on and go forward from an administration in which we have had the greatest progress and prosperity, without war, that this Nation has ever had; or do we go back to the policies which we left which were a mess 7 years ago, and no better today, the policies 3 of Harry Truman. [Cheers and applause.] Well, my friends, those policies led to a 50-percent increase in the cost of living, and that was the cruelest thing you could have done to the older people in this country, the cruelest thing you could have done to the housewife trying to balance a budget, because what we found was that, whether their income went up, it was all eaten up by the price increases. And the greatest tragedies were the millions of people living on fixed income, a little pension, a little life insurance, and then having their Government break faith with them, and I promise you we will not break faith with the American people. We're going to see to it that the dollars you earn today and save in life insurance and social security or pension will be worth a dollar when you retire 5, 10, 15 years from now, and in the years ahead. [Cheers and applause.] I have one other point I want to make, and this as I introduce the President: Cabot Lodge has made it, as he always does, in a brilliant way and in an effective way. I have seen the President make decisions, as Cabot has and as Nelson has. I know how lonely a President is when he makes a decision. I remember, as he will remember, the morning we went into Lebanon. I remember him pacing the floor in that oval room in the White House. He knew that sending American boys into Lebanon might risk war. He also knew if we didn't do it, it would perhaps certainly bring war or disaster for us in that area. So the bus stopped. He couldn't make one decision and retract it again, because once those planes started, they had to go in, and he decided it, and it was a courageous decision, and it was the right decision. I remember the decisions on Quemoy and Matsu. It would have been very easy for him to go along with a little group of people who said, "Oh, Mr. President, you must not ask for authority which would involve getting American boys involved in a couple of little islands off the coast of China"; but the President knew the lesson of history, that when you deal with a dictator that abandoning to a dictator under threat, any piece of territory doesn't satisfy him, but it encourages him. That's what brought Korea, and we're never going to do that in the future, just as the President didn't do it. [Cheers and applause..] I know, too, the other great decisions, some of which you may have forgotten, but, my friends, there has been instance after instance when a man less wise, when a man less experienced, when a man who shot from the hip, however well intentioned he might be, when a man who acted first and then thought second, could have put the United States into war or could have resulted in surrender of principle or territory, or both. I say the American people will be forever grateful to President Eisenhower for his restoration of dignity and decency to the office of the Presidency of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] I say they will be forever grateful to him because he has kept the peace without surrender, and I can only say that Cabot Lodge and I would only hope that we' the years ahead would be worthy of his leadership and worthy of the trust that you have shown by coming out here today. Now I present to you the man who got America out of the mess it was in, who has made us the strongest, the most productive, the most honored Nation in the world today, the President of the United States.
Mr. Chairman, Senator Javits, Senator Keating, Congressman Barry, we've had a very great day in New York today starting this morning in Brooklyn, then going out to Nassau, then finally ending up with a ticker tape parade with a meeting at Herald Square, and now this reception here in Yonkers. And I just want to say that based on the enthusiasm I have seen, based on the record crowds - and they have been record crowds - press please note - bigger than any that anybody's ever had in this area before, [cheers and applause] based on that we're on the way in the State of New York to carry New York and the Nation on November the 8th [applause]. I am particularly happy to be here for that reason, but also for a personal reason that I mention. It happened that before Pat and I were married and before she went to college - as a matter of fact she was here earning the money to go to college - that she used to visit in Yonkers a lot with the Sullivans, her cousins, and I'm glad to see that Ed Sullivan and his mother and father are still here. So to Pat, Yonkers is a very special place and we're glad to be back here for that reason. [Applause.] You know, sometimes I think people when they see a candidate for the Presidency or for Vice President of the United States, as the case might be and his wife, they sometimes get the impression that they're different from other people without the same problems, and of course, that's just as far from reality as you could possibly imagine, because I think that since Pat has spent some time here, although I'll get the dickens for this later, I'm going to tell you a little about her. You know, reference has been made several times during the course of this campaign to the fact that I worked my way through school. I did do it but I got a lot of help from my parents. I happened to get a scholarship and they helped me some as well, but with five boys in the family we had, of course, to have some help the other way as well. Now, I want to say with regard to Pat that she had no help whatever because her mother died when she was 13 years old, her father was ill then for 3 years and he died when she was 17 and here's a girl that worked her way clear through college without any help at all, so I'm glad to be here. [Applause.] And that, of course, is the American story. It's one that will be retold over and over again in many families in this audience. It's one that we must never forget. It's what makes America great - the fact that, any one of the young people in this audience can be what he wants to be, can and will have the opportunity to make his way. And that is the kind of America we're working for. We want to have all of you have that chance. We want to have all of you have that chance. [Applause.] Now, in the course of this campaign, of course, as we get into - the final days there are many issues that will be uppermost in your minds. I would say that the one that perhaps comes immediately to mind on a day like this in the middle of the afternoon when many of you are shopping is the problems that you have in keeping the family together. I know something about that. I grew up in a grocery store. I remember how the housewives that came in had the problems of the family budget. I remember they were hard for most everybody, but particularly difficult for those with large families, and particularly difficult for those, of course, who were retired trying to live on a pension or a little social security or something of that sort. I want to say to you today that one of the reasons why I believe that our ticket deserves the support not only of Republicans but Democrats and Independents alike in America is that our programs will produce progress in America - more progress in education, in housing, in civil rights, in all the areas that you want than we've ever had in its history, but they will produce progress without inflation. And we need that my friends, so that you can meet the family budget and that's what we all have to do. [Applause.] You see, it's a very easy thing for a man to get up and say, "I promise I'll do this; I promise I'll do that," and to go all around the country promising everything to everybody, but I want to tell you what it means. What it means is that you pay, because there is no money that grows on trees. The candidate doesn't pay for it. It doesn't make any difference how much he has - you pay. And so I say to you today that our program is one that we're proud of because it is a progressive program, but because it has in mind the problems of people. And I say to you also that you have to consider the fact that our opponents offer to America the most promises that any candidates have ever offered, but they would cost the most money and that, of course, means your money. And what does that mean? Let's put it right in terms that everybody here will understand. If their farm program were enacted, for example - and I also know something about farm programs - if it were enacted, the career employees of the Department of Agriculture - not the political appointees, the people who have down there, specialists for years - say that it would mean a 25-percent increase in the grocery bill of every family in America. Do you know what that means? I grew up in a grocery store. Two cents a loaf for every loaf of bread more. Four cents a quart for every quart of milk. Twenty-two cents for every dozen eggs more. Twenty-eight cents for every pound of chicken, twenty-eight cents for every pound of butter. You say, well listen, can this really be true? Could anybody suggest this kind of a program? I'm not suggesting it, but my opponent has come out for it. And I say he's wrong and I say the American people don't want a 25 percent increase in their grocery bills. [Applause.] And I say, too, that the farmers of America don't want it either because the other side of this program is that it would cut their production. It's a program based on scarcity, and it is one that would put representatives of the Government - 50,000 new inspectors in - and forcing upon the farmers of this country controls such as we have never had and such as we never want to have in the United States. That is one side of it. Now, if I could go on from there. In other words, what we're talking about here when you vote on November the 8th is this - you're making a decision. Every day, every housewife here, every homemaker, makes a decision. You go into a grocery store. You buy. You buy one item rather than another because if you buy the first item it means that you're going to be able to balance the family budget - pay the bills. When you vote on November the 8th you're going to make a decision and you will make a decision that will have more effect on your family budget than all the decisions you will make all your lives in every store in Yonkers or in New York City. [Applause.] And so that means vote for the right way and that means the right team in this election campaign. [Applause and cheers.] Now, let me turn to the other issue that I know is uppermost in the minds of everybody here - that's the future of America, but not only our future but the future of free people throughout the world. We want peace. We want it without surrender. We believe in freedom and w e believe in freedom not only for ourselves, but for people throughout the world. These things are as American as any ideals which could possibly be described. And the question again is, how do we get them ? How do we achieve them? And first, I want to say that I'm proud to have been part of an administration under which the President of the United States got this Nation out of a war that it was in and has kept it out of other wars and we have peace without surrender today. [Applause.] I want to say, too, that I have been present when the President has made the great decisions. I know how difficult they are. I know that no candidate can get up and say, "Elect me and I will be great and you're not to worry about anything any more." This isn't true. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I have had him shake his fist right under my chin and say, "We're going to catch you, Mr. Vice President. We're going to catch you and we're going to pass you, because our system is better than yours. We're going to catch you in 7 years." And I'll tell you what our answer is. Our answer is he won't catch us in 7 or 70 years if we're true to the principles that have made America the great Nation that it is. [Applause.] He also believes that the Communist system is going to dominate the world. He believes that they're going to gain a victory without war. My friends, he will not gain it provided again we are not foolish. Provided we recognize the type of a man he is and Mao Tse-tung and the other leaders of the Communist world. They don't react like Mr. Adenauer, Mr. Macmillan, Mr. De Gaulle, Mr. Nehru. These men are men who are ruthless and fanatical and who want nothing less than the world. It isn't Quemoy and Matsu that they're after, for example, or Formosa, but the world. It isn't Berlin, but Europe and the world. And when you're dealing with men like this it means that you must never surrender freedom any place in the world or you invite them to take the whole world. [Applause.] That's why my opponent was wrong when he said that President Eisenhower should have done what he did - not do - in Quemoy and Matsu, in dividing off a little bit of freedom and say, "Come and get it." He was wrong and the President was right. That's why the President was right and my opponent was wrong when President Eisenhower refused to apologize and express regrets to Khrushchev for defending the United States against surprise attack. [Applause.]  My friends, I know that many well-intentioned people in this audience might well say, but really, Mr. Vice President, isn't there an easier way? Couldn't we agree for some of his proposals? He says he is for disarmament. Why don't we agree to it? Why can't we take the first step?  Listen, my friends. I don't think anybody in this audience could feel stronger than I do on the subject of disarmament and peace. I have had it drilled into me from the time I could speak. My mother, my grandmother, both Quakers - to them peace is everything. I remember when I volunteered for service in World War II, I remember how very much they opposed it. I know, too, that there are people of infinite good will who believe that the President has been too firm, that he hasn't gone far enough in reducing the defenses of the United States on the promise that they would reduce theirs. But I want to tell you something. For all of you who love peace in this audience, let me tell you this. Anything we do that would result in an increase of Communist power compared to American power increases the risk of war rather than decreases it because, remember this: As long as the United States is the strongest Nation in the world, the cause of peace is safe because we will never use our strength except to keep the peace. [Applause.] But the moment you have a situation where as a result of an impractical deal, as a result of taking on faith what we should never take on faith, their strength increases with regard to ours, then the risk of war increases. And that's why I say, Cabot Lodge and I will work for peace. We will work to strengthen the United Nations and all other instruments of peace. We will go the extra mile. We'll go halfway around the world - clear around the world - to discuss, to attempt to work out these differences between nations. But, my friends, we know that in dealing with men like this the road to peace must be one in which we've got to be stronger than they are and just as firm and just as determined for the right as they are for the wrong. That is the road to peace and that is the way we're going. I have one other point that I mention. [Applause.] It seems far away, I suppose, from these subjects that I mentioned today but it is one that is infinitely important. As we came through the streets of this city I saw many of the schools with the children on the streets, I saw the churches, I saw the homes, and I realized that here was America - not just part of America, but all of it. Here are the hopes of America. Here are the dreams of America. Here were the people - the people that we must always remember if we succeed in this campaign, that we owe every devotion, every obligation of which we are capable. I also realize this: I realize, not only here, but as I have traveled to 47 States already in this campaign and we're going to all 50 incidentally by the end of this week, I realize as I travel the 47 States, spoken to great crowds like this, seen literally millions of people all the way from Hawaii to Maine to Florida to California to Minnesota - I realize that these people down in Washington and other places, the columnists and the commentators that are wringing their hands and sobbing around and saying, "America's people have lost their sense of purpose. America's people are becoming second in everything. America's people don't have the drive and the determination of the Communists." Believe me they don't know what they're talking about. The don't know America and they don't know her people. Listen, there's nothing wrong with the American people if our leaders would just recognize it, we're the greatest people on earth. [Applause.] Now that leaves us, however, a responsibility. It leaves a responsibility for all of us to see that America, is always at its best. I want to tell you something. I've traveled to 55 countries with Pat - Asia, Africa, Europe, almost all the world, the Communist world, the free world. Do you know one of the most difficult problems you have abroad? It isn't with explaining or defending the ideals we believe in - we're for peace, we're for freedom for all people, we have faith in God - all these things people want, people understand, but it's the fact that sometimes they can point to the fact that we don't practice at home the ideals that we believe in. And I say to you, my friends, you can help in this great struggle for peace and freedom. You can help not only by voting on election day but you can help by making this city, your community, your church, your home, your school, make it America at its best. Make it a shining example of what we want America to be to all the world, of equality of opportunity for all of our people, fighting prejudice and hatred wherever it exists so that when the President of the United States goes abroad, or when others come here, we can say, "We Americans not only believe in equality, but we practice it." This is what you can do and we ask you to do it, not only now but in the future. [Applause.] Now only 5 days remain in this campaign, and those 5 days will determine the outcome. It would be easy for me simply to say: "Vote our way," and that's the only message we have to leave. But I urge you my friends, the decisions are so important, they affect your lives, your future, I say that if you believe in the cause that we believe in, don't just vote, go out and work for it. Go out and work for it remembering that you are working for a cause that is bigger than a party. It's as big as America. It's as big as the whole world itself. I am convinced as I stand here, based on my travels through the world, of great destiny for America. I am convinced that this is a period that the great American people will either meet the challenge which is ours - the challenge to lead the world to peace and freedom - or fail to meet it. I think we're going to meet it. I think we're going to win. But my friends, we can only meet it in the event that the people in this country are strong morally and spiritually here at home. And so I say to you, I ask you not only to work in this election, not only to vote, but whatever the outcome, never forget that you, the American people, have a destiny and that destiny is to make America the finest land in all the world so that our President can represent it abroad as we want it to be. Thank you very much. [Applause.]
(These will be among the topics discussed by the Vice President in s televised speech from Columbia, S.C.) I know of no prior time when a candidate for the Presidency pitched his campaign on the proposition that America is second rate - that we are second best in science - second best in education - second best in effort - second best in productivity - generally run down, decrepit, and disrespected. I know of no prior campaign in which in three successive attempts to solve grave foreign problems a candidate made a critical mistake each and everytime - mistakes so serious that in each instance, had he been President, our Nation could have been bungled into war. Nor do I know of any party platform in all history as radical, as contradictory, as dangerous to our governmental system as the one adopted in July at Los Angeles, yet my opponent endorses it 100 percent. Having campaigned in every one of the Southern States; I have gained a clear understanding of what the people of the South are not going to do. The South will refuse to gamble on untried, uninformed leadership in foreign affairs. The South will indignantly reject a candidate who believes that a U.S. President should apologize or express regrets to a Communist dictator for taking essential security measures. The South cannot support a candidate who would hand over to Communists any of freedom's outposts - who would bumblingly intervene in the internal affairs of our Latin American neighbors - who would discontinue the gathering of intelligence information whenever Communists might agree to hold a meeting. The South will resentfully reject a candidate who keeps insisting that America is second rate. I have seen in the enthusiasm of hundreds of thousands of people that the people of the South will put principle before label, conviction before party. In a choice between the principles of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson and the principles of Schlesinger, Galbraith, Bowles, and Reuther, I have no doubt that the South will stick with its time-honored beliefs. There is no place for radical federalists in the Southland. From the Los Angeles platform it is clear what these men stand for. They stand for rampaging federalism in housing, education, urban affairs, natural resources, labor affairs, agriculture They stand for wild spending, higher taxes, higher prices and they stand for the political abuse of our currency. They stand for seizure of industry, for raiding the Treasury. They stand against States rights. The South can never accept such men or such a platform. Moreover, the people of the South will not swallow their convictions, forgive the insults, accept fiscal irresponsibilities, submit to Federal interference, and take untried leadership merely because a southerner turned westerner, turned northerner, suddenly ended up embracing an easterner. All of us have come far these past 8 years under the wise leadership of Dwight D. Eisenhower. We have moved from war to peace, from retreat in the world to forcing the Communists to abstain from force, from ruinous inflation to a stabilized dollar, from a stagnant economy to prosperity unmatched in history. We have built more hospitals, more schools, more highways, more homes, more water-resource projects that ever before - we have created more jobs that ever before and had less labor disturbances than ever before - we have been earning more, saving more, spending more, and investing more than ever before - and we have achieved all this without the crutch of a war, without inflation, with taxes reduced, with four balanced budgets and one more on its way. This is progress unexcelled in all our history. I say no citizen would wish to scuttle such progress in favor of programs of the kind that produced the mess in Washington 8 years ago An example is what my opponent thinks about the textile industry which, apparently, he considers expendable. On October 12 he said in New York that Federal funds should be used to retrain employees presently out of work in the textile and garment industries so they could qualify for other employment. This program would require, in most instances, moving the worker and his family to communities distant from his home. That is not my idea of effective help. I do not accept the proposition that the textile industry ought to be forced to curtail or to close. I would use the power the President has under existing law to minimize the damage to the industry so that textile workers would not be forced out of their jobs. Considering the dangerous foolishness in the Los Angeles platform - considering the dangerous off-the-cuff proposals of, my opponent in world affairs - considering the contemptuous cynicism toward the South reflected in putting Senators Kennedy and Johnson on the same ticket - there can be no question as to the sound course for our country. Six days from now the South will truly rise again. The South will help prevent disastrous consequences for America and will support our ticket. It will do so because Democrats who are truly loyal to the principles of their party in the South and throughout the country will recognize that the national leadership of the Democratic Party has forfeited any right to ask for their votes on the basis of party loyalty. The principles for which Dwight Eisenhower and I have fought and will continue to fight are the ideals not only of Republicans but of Democrats as well.
All through the campaign my opponent has been trumpeting the falsehood that I, in effect, feast on human misery - that I oppose minimum wage, help to distressed areas, social security, medical care for the aged, and all else that concerns the good of the American people. Last week Mr. Kennedy called me the leader of the social security wrecking crew - trying to secure votes from the aged by playing on their fears. What's disgusting about that statement is not alone that it is untrue; the fact that the Senator knows it is untrue concerns me far more. Now the truth is finally catching up with him. He has just discovered that his distortion of the record did not appeal to as many voters as he had hoped. In California this week he has been talking about my statement of last Monday outlining a comprehensive program of help for our senior citizens. No longer charging that I relish human tragedy, he now lamely says that "election week promises * * * will not meet the urgent problems of our older citizens." I assume that he means to insinuate that I will forget the senior citizens after election. Thus he shifts from blatant untruth to misleading insinuation. I say this to our senior citizens: All you have to do to find out who is telling the truth is to look at the record. Here it is  On these matters my opponent is all talk and no performance. Last August he was unable to lead even a 2-to-1 congressional majority to do a single thing he wanted done in the area of medical care for the aged, or any other field where he took a prominent role. Moreover, what he really stands for is a deep cut in the buying power of your social security benefits because his platform and promises will bring on another round of ruinous inflation. It has only been 8 years since America had similar leadership in the White House from the Senator's party. The result of the Truman inflation orgy was the same as cutting social security benefits in half. This addition to inflationary government seems to be the one thing the Senator and Mr. Truman have in common. This fact makes the Senator a vocal champion of such programs as medical care for the aged, but in actual fact their enemy. No matter what Mr. Kennedy says, the program for our senior citizens that I stand for will be adopted by the Congress. After all, I count on the support of most of the Congressmen who have demonstrated that they won't follow Senator Kennedy in that very important matter. That, in itself, is a comfortable working majority. The administration's accomplishments in the social security area speak far louder than my opponent's untruths. The Congress, responding to administration leadership, has broadened the coverage of social security to include some 12 million persons who were never benefited before and substantially increased the benefits. I intend to build on and improve this record of progress.
Governor Byrnes, Governor Shivers, all of the distinguished guests on this platform, and this great audience in Columbia, S.C.: I will have many moments which will be memorable in this campaign, but none I can assure you, of which I will be more proud than to have been introduced as I have been here by a man who is a great Democrat, but a great American - one who has served this Nation so well. He has well set the theme not only for my remarks to this great audience here in Columbia, not only for my remarks on television, which will be carried throughout the southern part of the United States, but also far this campaign north, east, west, and south - because, as Governor Byrnes has so well stated, the times we live in are so critical that it isn't enough to vote as your father voted, as your grandfather voted. It isn't enough to vote simply as the label you may wear, and the other man may wear. It isn't enough to vote as someone else tells you to vote. This time, America must come first above everything else - and that's what the people of America are going to do. I want you to know, too, that this is, for my wife, Pat, and me, a very special occasion from a personal standpoint. As you know, I spent 3 years at Duke University in North Carolina. I learned to love those who live in this country, to know those who are working here for a better America, as people throughout this Nation are working for a better America; and also I remember particularly a little trip my wife and I took just before I went into the service in 1942. We got in our car in Washington, D.C., and we drove in the springtime down through Virginia and North Carolina and South Carolina, and I want to say to you, my friends - and this, from a Californian, believe me, is somewhat of an admission - that I have never seen anything so beautiful as the flowers in the spring in Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina on that trip in 1942. We have never known hospitality, gracious hospitality, extended to us not because we were then, as we are now, public officials, but extended to us simply because we were citizens visiting from another part of the country - and for that we were grateful, and for this tremendous welcome here today we thank you as well. Now, if I could turn to the great issues confronting the country, if I could discuss them today not in terms of what the Republican Party stands for or what the Democratic Party stands for, but in terms of what America, needs - what America needs at home, what America needs abroad - because as Governor Byrnes again emphasized, and I repeat it, this we must do. My friends, let me tell you this: all of you make decisions. You make decisions everyday of your life. They're important, but there is no decision that the people of America will make in your whole lives that could be more important than the one you will make on Tuesday of next week. It will affect your lives. It can affect your freedom. It can affect the prices of everything you buy in your stores. It can affect the future of America and the future of your children, and that is why I say: Think of America. Think of America, and vote for America, and that is what we all want and what will be good for America. I begin by stating this is the 48th State that I have visited, and in this campaign, by next Tuesday, I will have done something that no other candidate has ever done - and never could do - I will have visited every one of the 50 States. I will be the only candidate in this election campaign to visit every State in the South, and I want to say this: My opponent has said that he could win without the South. I want to win with the support of all parts of the country, including the South. My friends, we have had enough of this attempt to divide America on a regional basis and on a class basis, and I will have none of it as President and none of it as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States. What we have to realize is that the issues confronting America today are ones that we must look at not as southerners, not as northerners, not as westerners, not as easterners; but again as Americans - and that's why I also want to say that I hope the time never comes, in the future, when either my party will concede the South or the other party will take the South for granted, as it has been taking it for granted for so many years. Now, I come to the key question. I recognize that in this great audience are many. who are members of my party. I recognize that in this great audience are many who, like Governor Byrnes, are members of the other party, and the question that is often asked of me is this: "Mr. Nixon, how can we vote for your ticket and still be loyal to our party?" There's a simple answer: when the national leadership of the other party adopted its platform at Los Angeles, they forfeited their right to ask any Democrat to be loyal, to vote for that ticket and for that platform. I say to you today that any true Democrat, any true Democrat who loses his party, who believes in the true principles of that party, cannot stomach and will have no part of that platform or its candidate who is running on that platform in this campaign I say to you today that the party of Jackson, the party of Jefferson, and the party of Wilson is at opposite ends of the poles from the party of Schlesinger and Galbraith and Reuther and Bowles, and we want no part of it in the South or any part of the country. My friends, let us get specific about why it is that Democrats as well as Republicans are going to support our ticket as they did in 1952, as they did in 1956. I'll tell you why. First, because the people of this country resent - and properly resent - the unconscionable attacks by my opponent on the leadership of one of the greatest Presidents we ever had, Dwight D. Eisenhower, the President of this country. Listen to what he has said. He has said, first, "America has stood still for 7 years under Eisenhower, and I will get her going again." My friends, look at South Carolina. A billion dollars worth of progress in the last 7 years. Anybody who says America, is standing still doesn't know America - and that's what I say today. In any field that you name, whether it's the building of schools or the building of hospitals, increasing our wages, or in improving social security. We find that the 7 Eisenhower years have been years of the greatest progress of any administration in history. Incidentally, one of the worst lies that has been told in this campaign is that I and my party oppose social security. We have done more to extend social security in this administration than has been done since it was founded, and we're proud of it, and the American people know it, and they're going to vote that way on election day. What else has he said critical of the President? Well, he has been talking about the fact that under the President's leadership in foreign policy - and I quote him exactly - we have had a period of retreat, defeat, and stagnation. My friends, the adjectives are all right, but they apply to the wrong administration. It was Harry Truman's administration in which we had that. And, incidentally, if that administration had followed the leadership of Secretary Byrnes, we would not have had the troubles that we had under that administration. But you remember what happened. Six hundred million people went behind the Iron Curtain in the 7 Truman years. But you remember what happened. A war in Korea - 150,000 American casualties. And you remember what happened under Eisenhower. I say this: I say that millions of Americans will be forever grateful to him for restoring dignity and decency and honesty to the conduct of the President of the United States. I say that millions of Americans will be grateful to him for ending one war, for getting us out of other wars, and for keeping the peace without surrender today. And I say, further, that as far as the leadership in the field of foreign policy is concerned - and I'll have more to say about that - the American people are proud of a President who has not answered insult with insult, but who has maintained his dignity in the face of the insults of the crude man from the Kremlin, Mr. Nikita Khrushchev. And what is the other charge my opponent makes against your President? Oh, he says, that under President Eisenhower America has become second, that she's second in education, that our science is second, that we have the worst slums, that we have the most crowded schools, that we're second in space. Listen, my friends: anybody who says that America is second rate like that doesn't deserve to be President of the United States. May friends, we're not going to choose as captain of the team a man who s running down the team not only at home, but abroad. The American people resent these attacks on the President and his leadership, and they're going to show their resentment by voting not only against those who make the attacks, but for the ticket that will carry on and build on the great progress we've made in these last 7½ years. Now if I may turn to some specific policies: Why should true Democrats support our ticket rather than the other? First, because when you look at that platform, what does it do? It is not a Democratic platform in its best sense because it fails to recognize a fundamental principle of the Democratic Party from the time of its foundation - and that is the principle of individual rights and local and State responsibility. It says: "We turn everything over to the Federal Government." And we say that we should not turn things over to the Federal Government unless the States cannot do the job. That's what the Democrats of this country want, and that's what the Democrats of the South want. We find also a spending program. The biggest spending program in history. My friends, let me put it in terms that all of you will understand. Do you realize, those of you who are listening here, that if we put that program into effect, it means raising your taxes; it means raising your prices; it means raising, for example, the prices in the grocery store by 25 percent? Do you realize that this kind of program is one in which a candidate has promised everything to everybody? But he doesn't pay for the programs. You pay for them. And I say that the American people see that for what it is, and they want no part of it. The American people also see that as far as this particular platform is concerned, and this program, it not only would rob them of their savings through inflating our currency, it not only would increase their taxes, it not only would increase their grocery bills, but it wouldn't do the job. It wouldn't do the job because, my friends, the way to progress in America is not to start with the Federal Government and work down to the people, but to start with the people and work up to the Federal Government. So, again I say, true Democrats will support our ticket rather than the other, because we stand for the things that you believe in. And then in the field of foreign policy, what do we find? Well, my friends, I want to be very direct here. Here is the most critical issue of all, the most critical issue because, as was indicated in Billy Graham's invocation, as was indicated in Governor Byrnes' introduction, we are electing not only a President of the United States; we are electing a leader of the free world. And the man we elect to sit in that lonely job in the White House when he speaks, when he acts, it's for keeps. In this campaign, what has happened? Three times my opponent shot from the hip. Three times he disagreed with the President. Three times he was wrong, and the President was right. Let me give you the chapter and verse. Quemoy and Matsu: the President said, "Give me the power to defend these islands, because if I don't have that, I won't be able to defend Formosa." And my opponent said, "No." He opposed a majority of even his own party and said, "No. We will draw a line. We will surrender these islands. We will say to the Communists: 'Come and get it.'" And we did that in Korea. It was wrong there. It would have been wrong this time. The President was right and he was wrong. You can't surrender at the point of a gun to communism any place in the world. And if that mistake had been made, I can assure you it would have been a mistake that could have led to surrender or to war, or to both. The second point: the U-2 incident. You remember the President. Khrushchev came to him and insulted him at Paris and said, shaking his fist: "Apologize; express regrets for what you've done." The President refused. Senator Kennedy disagreed and said he could have. The Senator was wrong. The President was right. Because, if any President - let's assume Mr. Kennedy had been President had apologized to Mr. Khrushchev, Khrushchev, would have beaten him to a pulp, and we can't have a President doing that with Khrushchev or anybody else. And then in Cuba - again shooting from the hip - advocating a policy that would have broken our treaties, cost us our friends, gotten us probably, possibly certainly, into war. Of course, his defenders say he didn't mean it. He took it all back. He says he now agrees with the President. My friends, a candidate can say something and take it back and nobody's the worse for it. But a President makes a decision and then it's war or not war. It's peace or not peace. It's surrender or not surrender. My friends, I say that we cannot use the White House as a training school for a man who gains experience at the expense of the American people in this critical period. I recognize that in this audience there are those who do not agree with all of my positions. I recognize, for example, that on the issue of civil rights we will find disagreement with my position. But I do know that as I stand here, you respect me as a man who talks the same in the North and the East and the West and the South and stands for his convictions, as I do today. And I want to say this: In this great struggle for peace and freedom we're going to win. I'll tell you why we're going to win. Not because we're the strongest nation in the world militarily, and will stay that way - and I pledge it. Not because we're the richest nation economically, and we'll stay that way - and I pledge it. Do you know why we're going to win, my friends? Because we're on the right side. Do you know what the right side is? It's the side of the ideals of the American people. I'll tell you why I know. I have been to 54 countries with my wife. I have talked to great throngs like this and, whether it's in Asia or Africa or South America or Europe, or Russia or Poland, the people of the world want peace. The people of the world want freedom. The people of the world want to believe in something other than just a man. They want faith - faith in God; faith in the great rights that come not from men, but from God. What does America stand for? I'll tell you. One hundred and eighty years ago we were not a rich nation. We were not a strong nation militarily. But America caught the imagination of the world because we had faith - faith in ideals that were bigger than America, and they're as big today as they were then. And, my friends, you must keep these ideals strong in the hearts of our young people, because in the schools, in the churches, in the homes of America we must develop a burning patriotism - the faith in our ideals, in our God - which will enable the next President of the United States to stand for what is right against what is wrong all over the world. And that's what we will do, with your help. There comes a time in a nation's history when you sense that it has reached a great turning point. I believe that today. The question is: Do we turn away from the policies that have kept the peace? Do we turn away from the policies that have brought us the greatest progress? Do we go to inexperienced leadership? Do we go to policies that we left 7½ years ago that didn't work then and are not better now? Or do we go forward into the future, building on these policies, for greater progress in every field than America, has ever experienced? Do we go forward into the future in which America and her President will stand proudly before the world and say to Mr. Khrushchev : "You say that our grandchildren will live under communism; we say that your grandchildren will live in freedom"? That is what I want to fight for - and that is what I ask of you today. Thank you.
Thank you very much. My friend, John Tower, Thad Hutcheson, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this really great audience here in Houston: I know that you realize how deeply Pat and I have been moved by this tremendous reception, and it can only mean in our hearts one thing. It means that Harris County and Texas are going to vote for the Nixon-Lodge ticket on November 8. [Cheers and applause.] In fact, when I saw the tremendous crowd at the airport, I didn't believe there could be anybody down here at the rally, and, as I look around me and see all the Nixon girls on the right and the left, as I see this great throng here, as we saw the people as we came in waiting for us on the streets, it really moved us and touched our hearts, and we want you to know how much we appreciate what I understand is a good old-fashioned welcome. [Cheers and applause.] I was delighted, too, prior to the time of coming on the stage, to hear you welcome enthusiastically my colleagues who are candidates on my party's ticket in this State. I particularly want to mention my friend, John Tower. [Cheers and applause.] You know, I have a pretty good deal of experience in seeing candidates, and I've seen a lot of candidates for the Senate around the country, Democrat and Republican. I will say that there is no candidate that I have seen who, from the standpoint of experience, background and courage, is more qualified to be a U.S. Senator from Texas than John Tower. [Cheers and applause.] And I use that word "courage" advisedly. He's willing to run for one office alone. He doesn't ask for two. [Cheers and applause.] Now, my friends, somebody said "pour it on." [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I want to tell you a little about this day. Some of you saw the rally from New York last night on television, I am sure. [Cheers and applause.] Well, the President told me on the phone today, he called me while I was at the Alamo. He said, by all means, particularly when you're in Texas, give my best to my home folks in my home State. So, here's the best from President Eisenhower. [Cheers and applause.] After that rally last night, Pat and I got up very early this morning and we flew to Columbia, S.C. When we got there, in this heart of the South, we drove from the airport into the city, and there on the capitol steps we saw the largest crowd ever gathered in Columbia, S.C., for any meeting, Democrat or Republican, ever held there in that State. [Cheers and applause.] And I was proud to have a man who not only is a great Democrat, but who is a great American, introduce me to this great throng in Columbia, S.C. [Cheers and applause.] And I was proud, too, to have on the stage with me another great Democrat and a great Texan and a great American and I refer to Alan Shivers, who was there. [Cheers and applause.] Having mentioned my good Democratic friends, I just want to say this: From what I saw there, from what I saw at the Alamo, where we again had the biggest crowd they've ever had at the Alamo for a political meeting, Democrat or Republican, from what I see here to night, I can only say that this means something. It means something as I indicated a moment ago about November 8. It also means this: That the Democrats of Texas and the South are tired of being considered to be in the bag by the national Democratic leadership. [Cheers and applause.] And I am proud that here in the State of Texas, we present candidates that give a choice. We present candidates running on a platform that is closer and is truer to the great ideals of the Democratic Party than that - well, I don't know what to call it - that thing adopted in Los Angeles by - you know what I mean. [Cheers and applause.] Tonight I want to direct my remarks, of course, to the Republicans here. I want to talk also to the Democrats here. I want to talk to the independents. I want to talk to this great television audience in terms not of simply Republican platforms and programs or Democratic platforms and programs, but of the decision we make that is bigger than any party to which we belong, and that's the decision on November 8. Let me say this, my friends: I am convinced that when we go to the polls next Tuesday, we will be making a decision which will mark a historic turning point in the history of America, a historic turning point, because America can take one of two roads, and you will decide it. Those two roads I want to describe tonight, because when the people go to the polls they should know where the roads lead. They must not follow a Pied Piper from Boston down the road to disaster. [Cheers and applause.] Now, why do I say this decision is bigger than the Republican Party and bigger than the Democratic Party? I say it because this year, 1960, we are electing not only the leader of America, but the leader of the free world. This year, 1960, we elect a man who will determine what will happen in the United States, but also who will determine what will happen in the world, and I say it is not enough simply to vote on the basis of how your father voted or your grandfather voted or the label you may wear. What we must do is to put America first and the party second - and that is best for us and best for America. [Cheers and applause.] Now, here, then, is your choice. Eight years ago the State of Texas proudly voted for Dwight Eisenhower for President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Why did you do it? Not only because he had been born in this State, but because the people of Texas, Democrat and Republican alike, realized there was a mess in Washington. They realized that that mess had to be cleaned up, and they knew that it couldn't be cleaned up by those who had made the mess. So, they elected Dwight Eisenhower to do it, and he did clean it up, and we're thankful for that. [Cheers and applause.] In 1956 you had another test, and there again the two same candidates were running, and there again Democrats joined with Republicans and by the thousands in Texas, by the millions in America, and gave Dwight Eisenhower the biggest majority in history. And now comes 1960, and the question is: After 1952 and after 1956, and after 7½ years of leadership by this man, leadership which has brought, peace to America, leadership that has avoided surrender for America, leadership which has brought the greatest progress and prosperity that America has ever had, after 7½ years of this kind of leadership, the question is: Do you repudiate it? Do you say we're going to go back to what we left 8 years ago? [Cries of "No."] Or do you say: Shall we go forward into the future - forward into the future? [Cries of "Yes."] [Cheers and applause.] Well, that, in a "nutshell", is your choice. So, now we look at the leadership the other side offers. They say: Repudiate Eisenhower, and may I say I am sick and tired of hearing my opponent run down the President of the United States and his administration. [Cheers and applause.] I know - after hitting him below the belt, he says, "Oh, I didn't do it. I didn't mean Eisenhower. I meant Nixon." [Laughter.] But then what did he say? What did he do? Look at what he said about the President in these last 8 years. First, he said these last 7½ years - and I quote him, without notes - These last 7½ years [Laughter, cheers, and applause.] - he said - Now, listen to this: These last 7½ years have been years when America has been standing still, and we've got to get America going again. Now, look, my friends, he says America is standing still. I'm not going to talk about all of America. I've been in 48 States. How did Houston become the sixth city in the Nation if you've been standing still for 7½ years? [Cheers and applause.] No. And, so, you see, he can't prove that when he fights with the truth, because we know we have built more schools in these last 7½ years; more hospitals; more progress in social security; more increase in real wages; more jobs; a better life for Americans than in any 7½ year period in our history, and in almost every field tremendously more than we did in the Truman years. And, so, I want to say that on that score, that doesn't stand up. What else does he say? He says the 7½ years of the Eisenhower administration have been, in the field of foreign policy, years - and I quote again - of retreat and defeat and stagnation. You know, those adjectives sound pretty good. The only trouble is: He's got the wrong administration. He meant Truman's administration. [Cheers and applause.] You remember? You remember when I was here in 1952 in Texas? You remember what I said? In those 7½ years that President Eisenhower cleaned up afterward - you remember 600 million people were lost to communism in those years. You remember Yalta? You remember Potsdam? You remember the wooly heads and all the rest? [Cheers and applause.] All right, and you remember, too, what happened. We were in a war in Korea. How did it happen? Oh, a well-meaning Secretary of State drew a line, drew a line like a candidate for the Presidency wants to draw it today, and he said to the Communists: I drew a line leaving out Korea, saying, "Come and get it," and they did, and we had to go in and fight, and 150,000 American boys were casualties. And I want to say this: It was wrong to draw a line surrendering principle or territory to communism then, because it led to war. It would have been wrong to do it on Quemoy and Matsu. It must. never be done again, and I will never make that mistake, I can assure you. [Cheers and applause.] Now, what else does he say when he criticizes the President? He says under the leadership of this administration, America has become second rate in education; we're second in science; we're second in space - [Cries of "No."] - We have the worst - [Cries of "No."] This is him speaking, not me. We have the worst slums. We have the most crowded schools. Seventeen million Americans go to bed every night, et cetera, ad infinitum on down the line. Listen, you know what the situation is? We don't have, certainly, perfect schools in America. We have just of the best education in the world. That's all. [Cheers and applause.] No. There are some areas of science where we're not always first, but, overall, it's admitted we're first in the world, and we'll stay that way under our leadership. [Cheers and applause.] And you talk about space, but they should talk about space - the only reason we ever got behind in space was because in Truman's administration they didn't do anything about it, and they left it to Eisenhower to do it - and we caught up. [Cheers and applause.] And as a result, we find today that we have 28 successful space shots against 8 of theirs, and we find that in the area, for example, of the big boosters, and even there we're going to move ahead and we're going to pass them, and here again I say they better not talk about this because they know they're at fault, and that Eisenhower has closed the gap that they left in this and so many other fields. [Cheers and applause.] Now, one other point that's made, and then I will go to the foreign policy issue, and this I want to discuss particularly, because I know that many people listening to me will be concerned about this charge. The other day when I was in Detroit, I picked up a paper. I read the headline in that paper, eight-column head, Detroit Free Press, read, "Kennedy Predicts Slump." Now, you know, that must worry a lot of people, because you know what causes a slump? It's when people in positions of responsibility create lack of confidence in the economy, when people quit buying. You know, right above that very headline in the same paper was an eight-column head. You know what it said? It said, "New Car Sales at Alltime High in the United States." [Cheers and applause.] Now, my friends, somebody's wrong here. Senator Kennedy predicts a slump. That means he has no faith in the future of our economy, but 180 million Americans are buying more new cars than ever, and they believe that times are going to be good. I say the American people are right and Kennedy is wrong on that particular issue [cheers and applause] because, my friends - I'll just add this - he may have more dollars than you have, but you've got a lot more sense than he has. [Cheers and applause.] And, you know, the most crowning blow of all, then the next day, in that little-boy manner he has, very innocent, he said: "You know, if I'm elected President, I'll consult - I'll consult with President Eisenhower about how to stop this slump" [laughter] - the slump that he's predicting. You know what that looks like? That's like the little boy in the neighborhood who runs in to see the fire chief and says: "Chief, I want to consult with you about how to put out the fire that I started." [Cheers and applause.] Well, he'll have a chance to consult with Eisenhower, but he'll be a Senator of the United States and not the President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Now, so much for his program. What does he offer? That's his program of criticism. All he offers is going back, going back to the policies we left 7½ years ago, policies that cut the value of the dollar in half, policies of Federal control over our business, over our economy, policies in which labor leaders and bosses - and I mean political bosses - have keys not only to the front door, but the side door and the back door of the White House, policies and I will give you what they are - that are not the policies of the Democratic arty. They are the policies of Schlesinger, the policies of Galbraith and Bowl and Reuther - and I say those are not the policies of Jefferson and Jackson. [Cheers and applause.] But some of my friends say: "But, Mr. Nixon, it sounds so good. He's going to spend so much money, and isn't this good for us?" It would be if it was his money, but it isn't. It's yours. [Cheers and applause.] And that's the other side of the coin. My friends - and I want everybody to listen very carefully as I say this - when you vote, you will be voting to determine the prices of everything you buy, because a $15 billion increase in the Federal budget, which his platform will cost - and there's no question about it - means raising taxes, raising prices, or both. Now, he says: "Oh, no; I'm against raising taxes. I'm for a balanced budget, and I'm for my program." You can't be for all three, my friends. You're an economic ignoramus if you are. [Cheers and applause.] No, because, you see, if you add $15 billion to this budget, you've got to take it out of the hides of the people - taxes, prices and the like. Now, I say the American people - I know these problems. I know what the housewife goes through trying to balance a family budget. I know what millions of people on social security and pensions go through. I know how cruel it was to them in the Truman administration to see their life savings eaten in half by a Government that broke faith with them, and I want to tell you that I stand for policies, yes, that that will spend what needs to be spent to move America forward in all these fields; but I also stand against spending any dollar that can be spent better in Texas by the people in Texas than can be spent in Washington, D.C. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, here is your choice there. Here is the Pied Piper saying "Give me your money, and I will solve your problems." And here is our program: Move forward, but move forward with the Federal Government recognizing that the greatest way to responsibility and progress in this country is not through taking responsibility away from people, but through encouraging individual initiative of 180 million Americans. [Cheers and applause.] And that's why our programs will produce the progress that theirs talk about. We'll build the schools and the housing. It means better jobs and higher wages, but it means also keeping our money, the money you work and save for and put in social security or life insurance. It means that the money you earn today will be worth a dollar tomorrow, the neat day and the years afterward. And, so, in this field I don't think there's much choice. I think you want to go forward and not back to those policies we left. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let me turn now to the foreign policy field, but briefly, because I'm sure that all of you understand thus issue. It has been greatly discussed in this campaign. Here again the choice is going forward or back. Here again you have the sound, proved leadership of this administration. You know Mr. Lodge and me. We both have been in this administration for 7½ years. We both have participated in the decisions of the President and the Cabinet. We have sat with the President in the great decisions that have avoided war and that have avoided surrender. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We've never been taken in by him, and we never will be, I can assure you. [Cheers and applause.] And with us we pledge to you that we will keep America strong militarily, that we will be firm at the conference table, but never belligerent, that we will always work to strengthen the instruments of peace, always work, to strengthen them, and that we will work to extend freedom. This is what we offer. And what does our opponent offer? Well, he says we need new leadership. We need a change of direction. What is the change? You've had three tests in this campaign. One I've already mentioned - Quemoy and Matsu. Five years ago if he had been President he would have done differently from President Eisenhower. He would have drawn a line and said to the Communists: Come and get these two islands because we don't think they're defensible. We don't want to get in a war about them. You know what would have happened? They would have come and gotten them and, in my opinion, there would have been a war. That's why President Eisenhower was right and he was wrong - and we haven't had a war there on that particular issue. [Cheers and applause.] All right. That's the second point now. Paris conference. This June. You remember. You remember Khrushchev shaking his fist in Eisenhower's face at the conference. Apologize, he said, for the U-2 flights that the President had ordered for defending the security of the United States. Apologize and express regrets. The President, of course, refused, kept his dignity, but refused, as he should, because no President can ever apologize for defending the United States against anybody. [Cheers and applause.] Here, what would my opponent have done if he had been President? You've got your answer. He said it in our debates. He said it out in Oregon before that. He said it on the Dave Garroway show. The President could have apologized, could have expressed regrets. Listen, if he had been President and had done that, Khrushchev would have beaten him to a pulp and America's prestige would have really gone down - you can be sure of that. [Cheers and applause.] And, worse still, it would have meant surrender at the conference table. And then the third instance, the instance of Cuba - here again shooting from the hip, but not in the Texas fashion, because he missed the mark completely [cheers and applause] shooting from the hip and, rather than following the President, who said we'll handle this fellow, Castro, within our treaties by quarantining him economically and politically, he said: No; no. We've got to go further than that. We've got to break our treaties - and he didn't say that but that's the way everything was interpreted. He said: We will actually aid the rebel forces in and out of Cuba. He didn't know what he was saying. The next day he had to take it back. And, now I just want to say one thing, my friends. I want to say, in all fairness, he's taken back all three of these things He says he now supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu. He said he didn't really mean the President did the wrong thing in Paris, and he says : All along I didn't mean what everybody thought I meant about Cuba. I really meant what the President said - we want to give moral support to the cause of freedom. So, here are three instances where he first said one thing and then said something else. My friends, suppose he had been President. You know what would have happened? I've been there. I've been there when the President made great decisions. I remember the morning we went into Lebanon. I remember the President pacing the floor of the oval room in the White House. It was a terrible decision for any man to make, even for a man used to great decisions, because the President knew that if he went in it risked war. He knew that if he didn't go in war would probably be sure because the Communists would sweep down through the Middle East. So, finally, he turned to me. He said: "We have got to go in." We went in. That was one of at least 10 decisions made in this administration which could have resulted in war if somebody who was rash, somebody who was impulsive, somebody who was inexperienced had been sitting there in the White House. Remember this: A candidate can say something one day, take it back the next, and nobody's the worst for it, but a President - when he shoots, it's for keeps - and I say we cannot use the White House as a training school to give experience to a man [cheers and applause]. So, there is your choice - forward or back - forward, building on the great policies of these last years; forward, building a richer and better America; forward, not only holding the line for peace and freedom, but extending it throughout the world, with Cabot Lodge and me working together in that cause, or going back, back not only to policies that were repudiated 8 years ago, but back with leadership that is inexperienced, leadership that is rash, leadership that is impulsive. My friends, do you wonder that I say this is not a decision that can be made on the basis of how your father voted or your grandfather voted or a party label? America is involved, and I say to you today - I ask the people of Texas - I say: Vote first as Americans and Texans, and I am confident of the result on November the 8th. Thank you. [Cheers and applause.]
To know small business you must have lived and worked at it yourself. My father and mother worked together to make their livelihood by running a grocery store - a very small business - and the whole family worked hard to make that grocery store survive and show a profit. Working in that store taught me more than just the grocery business. It taught me much about the problems of small businesses for my father's friends were in other lines and we talked back and forth about their problems and ours. I am proud that the administration of which I have been a part for almost 8 years has shown a real understanding of small business, its problems and its needs, that my opponent and his followers cannot begin to touch. For 20 years the opposition had ample opportunity to act in behalf of small business, but the Small Business Administrator himself tells us that more was accomplished in these last 8 years than in all those previous 20. One of the first things we did in 1953 was to get the Federal Government out of several hundred business-type operations - baking, laundry, cleaning, paint manufacture, sawmilling, and the like - where the Government had gone into many private lines of business and was itself competing with small business. Also in our first year in office, 1953, we created the Small Business Administration, the first independent peacetime Government agency established for the sole purpose of assisting small business. The SBA, in the short space of 7 years, loaned more than $1 billion to more than 21,000 small firms - most of which would not be in business today providing paychecks and jobs except for the SBA assistance they received. Among its major activities, the SBA helps small business to get Government business. As a result, Government contracts totaling $4 billion have gone to the small businesses of the Nation and the Government is today buying three times as much from small firms as it did in the last year under Mr. Truman. Figures just released show that in July, August, and September of this year alone, 6,456 Government contracts worth $286 million went to small businesses - up about 38 percent over the same period in 1959. To help bring investors and small businesses together, the SBA sponsored the creation of small business investment companies, more than 145 such companies today finance almost every variety of enterprise, helping to solve the small businessman's toughest problem - raising capital. Not until President Eisenhower in 1956 created his Cabinet Committee on Small Business had any administration given such top-level recognition to the important role of small business in the American economy. The committee's recommendations - now mostly carried out - were for tag relief, simplified Government procedures and more Government purchasing from small business. This is an outstanding administration record. My program for small business will build on these splendid achievements. First, we pledge to continue a healthy climate in which small business can rise and flourish - a climate of economic stability, a stable dollar, a growth without inflation and progress without boom and bust. Second, we pledge to expand the SBA so that its assistance is available wherever it is needed. Thus we will step up the SBA's collection and dissemination of latest information on new managerial and technical developments. Using the country's hundreds of business schools and bureaus of business research, we will develop a program - like that of the agricultural field service - for assisting, educating, and training the small businessman, not in some remote place, but on the spot, right where his business is located. Under such a program, hundreds of business experts would be available, first to help analyze small business problems and second to help solve them. Third, new SBA lending authority will be immediately proposed when required. Fourth, effective action will be undertaken to give small business an even greater share of the Government business that it can perform. Fifth, it is my purpose to strengthen small business investment companies, so they will be able to serve small business as effectively as the Farm Credit Administration serves our farmers, as effectively as the Housing and Home Finance Administration serves the homeowner. Sixth, as soon as possible, consistent with the Nation' revenue needs I want to have changes in the tax laws adopted that will benefit and further the cause of small business. Finally, I will make the Cabinet Committee on Small Business a permanent advisory group to the President, and I will direct it to devote its efforts to generating new and imaginative ideas for the encouragement and development of small business throughout America.
As I drove through New York yesterday with my running mate. Henry Cabot Lodge, I was shocked by the fact that Senator Kennedy would never allow his running mate, Senator Johnson, to be seen in New York with him before the general public. The other presidential and vice presidential team has one significant thing in common - each disagrees with the other. Senator Johnson and Kennedy have flatly disagreed 264 times on rollcall votes in the Congress. They have disagreed on 1 out of every 4 or 5 votes they have cast over the years. They have disagreed on farm policy, disagreed on taxes, disagreed on civil rights, disagreed on foreign aid, disagreed on foreign policy, disagreed on defense. They have disagreed on labor issues, disagreed on public works, disagreed on housing, disagreed on tidelands oil. Name it and they have disagreed on it - from antitrust, atomic energy, banking and controls to the national economy, education, clean elections, natural gas. They have disagreed on highways, mail rates, and loyalty oaths. They even have disagreed on fireworks. They have disagreed on Quemoy and Matsu. They disagreed on cloture in the Senate. They disagreed on interest on GI loans. They disagreed on the student loyalty oath. And on and on. And now they disagree with parts of their party's platform, but in different ways on different parts, which adds to the confusion because the platform disagrees with itself. The vice presidential candidate received support in his State only a month ago, as did the presidential candidate, but qualified by this enlightened comment by the Texas Governor: "No one should interpret the support of these nominees as support of the platform that was written at Los Angeles." In short, when the American people look at one set of candidates, they find agreement on the central issues of the day. There also, America finds tested experience in dealing with the most critical problem of all, the problem of war and peace. By contrast, the Johnson-Kennedy ticket is an incomprehensible blur and smog. Together they stand on both sides of almost everything, and so together they stand for nothing. Their main common denominator is an amateur standing in world affairs. The great question this situation presents is this: If elected, which one would be the spokesman? At their summit meeting, which one would apologize? A week and a half ago, Senator Johnson said that, among other reasons, his ticket would win because of "an inability of Richard M. Nixon and Henry Cabot Lodge to even agree on what they are saying to each other." In the light of his 264 votes in opposition to Senator Kennedy's views - in the light of his obvious distaste for large chunks of the Los Angeles platform - and in light of his own condescending and contemptuous references to Senator Kennedy earlier this year - his comment on Republican differences is ludicrous. Clearly it has been sheer accident when he and his running mate have agreed. I believe America wants and deserves leaders who can see alike and stand together on key issues all the time - not just once in a while.
Mr. Kennedy is clearly feeling the force of the demand that he answer this question about his platform and promises: Where is the money coming from? The latest maneuver is to have Kennedy spokesmen, most recently Governor Hodges of North Carolina, talk about budget savings that would be made to help offset the enormous new spending he is proposing. First, we are told Mr. Kennedy is going to save $500 million a year by his farm program. I would like him to tell us just what farm programs he is going to cut down on or cut out? What is he going to take away from the farmers? Or is he going to finance his fantastic farm program by raising the price of food 25 percent in the stores, as the experts say he will? Second, we are told he is going to save $1.5 to $2 billion in the Department of Defense. I would like Mr. Kennedy to tell us just how he proposes to do this. Does he claim that he knows more about organizing the Defense Department than does President Eisenhower? Just what weapons programs is he going to discontinue? Third, we are told that he is going to save $2 billion in interest on the national debt by driving down interest rates. I would like to make this crystal clear. To drive down the interest rate enough to save $2 billion in interest on the Federal debt would mean such expansion of the money supply as to produce violent inflation. That would drive up the cost of everything the Government buys by more than it would save in interest. Some saving. All this talk about future savings by the Kennedy people to pay for their wild sending just doesn't begin to make sense. I challenge him to document his line - or drop it.
I have just been informed by officials on the platform that. this is the largest crowd ever gathered for a political meeting at the Alamo. We thank you for coming. We thank you also for waiting - and I want you to know that the reason we were late was not the Texas weather, but the weather where we were before. Believe me, there's nothing that can really give this campaign in Texas the final sendoff that we wanted, more than this tremendous reception right here in San Antonio; and this means that what we do here, what we do at Houston later tonight, and then in our appearance tomorrow at Fort Worth, will carry Texas and the Nation for us on November the 8th. I have a number of issues that I want to talk to you about today. But before I go into those issues, I want all of my friends here in Texas to know how much I appreciate the opportunity to be on this platform with my fellow candidates - with John Tower, our splendid candidate for the Senate, Ike Kampmann, our candidate for the Senate at the State level, and all of our candidates in this particular State. I want you to know that after what happened at the Democratic convention in Los Angeles, I think more and more people in Texas and in the South realize they have to have a choice, so that they won't be taken for granted by their national leaders - and the people of Texas are going to get that choice. I commend these men to you as fine men, as men who can serve Texas and the Nation well in the positions which they seek. My friends, we have just a few days left, 5 days, until what will be one of the most fateful decisions in the history of the United States, and, of course, the history of Texas. That is the decision you will make as you go, with millions of your fellow citizens, into the polling booths next Tuesday. I want to tell you how I feel you should make that decision. I want to put it in the words that the President of the United States has put it in - words that others who have introduced me today have used, like Gov. Jimmy Byrnes in Columbia S.C., where we, incidentally, had the largest crowd they've ever had for a meeting. My friends, there are in this audience Republicans - but this is a time when we must think not of our party first, but of America first, and pick the man that's best for America to lead this free world of ours. That is what we did in 1952. That is why Texas went for Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956; because Democrats as well as Republicans said that he was the man to lead America and not his opponent, Adlai Stevenson. And I say today - I say particularly to those who are Democrats in this great audience, to those of you to whom the charge is often made, that you must vote your party or you will be disloyal to your party - that those who would vote for candidates running on the kind of platform that was adopted in Los Angeles would be disloyal to the true principles of the Democratic Party. I say, my friends - and listen to me on this score - I say again, as I have said over and over, that the party of Schlesinger, the party of Reuther, and the party of Bowles is not the party of Jefferson and Jackson and Wilson, and the party of Democrats in Texas as well. Now let me tell you why I say that. I say that, my friends, because at Los Angeles there was adopted a platform on which our opponents are running - a platform to which they have pledged their loyalty, which, in terms of the amount of money it would spend - your money - and in terms of the programs it would adopt - programs that would federalize institutions in this country - is the most radical program ever advocated by a political candidate in the United States. I say that the people of Texas, Democrat or Republican, do not want and will not vote for federalization of basic institutions in this country, as that platform calls for in Los Angeles. I say that the Democrats in Texas as well as Republicans do not want to send down to Washington their hard-earned dollars and say, "Only the Federal Government can handle our problems," and thereby weaken the States and weaken the local governments. I say you believe as I do. You believe in the true Democratic principle, and it's a Republican principle as well today, and the true Democratic and Republican principle is that the Federal Government should step in only when the States or the local governments can't do the job - that's what I believe in, and that's what you believe in. Now let's put this in terms that every one of us will appreciate. I'm often asked, "Mr. Nixon, what difference does it make about these promises? Why don't you go out and outpromise your opponents? After all, it's not your money - and if that's what the people want, promise a billion here and a billion there, and then the people will vote for you because you're going to give them what they want." I'm going to tell you why I don't do that. First, if I made such promises, it wouldn't be good for the country if I kept them; and, second, because I know what it means to meet a budget - I mean a family budget. I know how tough it is, tough not only for my mother and father, but for millions of families in this country to make ends meet at the end of the month, and I know that every time we spend a dollar in Washington that we don't need to spend it makes it tougher for youeverybody in this audience, the housewife, the retired person, the person on social security - to meet your budget. I will not allow one dollar to be spent in Washington that can be spent better back here in San Antonio, Tex., and by the people of Texas. My friends, my opponent offers programs that will add - and I use this term advisedly - $15 billion a year to the Federal budget. He says, "I'm against raising taxes." He says, "I'm for balancing the budget." But he also says he's for this program. Now, my friends, you can't be for all three he's got to give up one of the three. If he's for spending $15 billion more, he's either got to raise taxes, or he's got to raise prices through deficit spending - and I say he should tell the American people: Does he want to raise taxes? Does he want to have deficit spending and raise prices, or what part of his program is he going to give up? Let's have the truth from him about this before electron day, so the people can decide. Let me put it in terms that all of us can understand. You remember when I was here before. You remember the year 1952, going back even 8 years. You remember the situation then? Just think back a minute, particularly those of you who have mothers or fathers that were retired and living on a little social security, or a pension. Do you remember in those 7 Truman years what happened? Your income was cut in half, because the Federal Government was spending more than it was taking in - because it was adopting the same kind of low-interest-rate policies, so-called, the same kind of interest-rate policy: a political control of the Federal Reserve System that my opponent advocates today. It meant that millions of Amerieans - those who were living on pensions, who had a little social security, who had retired - had the cruelest blow of all. And that was for the Government to break faith with them, because the value of the dollar was cut in half during the Truman years. My friends, I say that was wrong. I say it will never happen again. I will not let it happen again, because I believe when people work hard, when they save their money, when they put it in social security or life insurance or pensions, that those of us in government have a responsibility to see to it that the dollar you earn today brings you a dollar's worth of groceries or food or whatever you want to buy tomorrow, or 5 years from now when you retire; and that's what we're going to do. In all those fields it adds up to the same thing. If you want bigger Federal Government, more control over your lives, control over your educational system, control over the medical profession - if you want these things, you have a choice. But, my friends, if you believe we had enough of that in 1953 - and I think we had enough of it, believe me - if you think we had enough of that mess in 1953 and you don't want to go back, then let's go forward and build on the Eisenhower policies for a greater America for all of the people of this country. How do we go forward? What is the way to the future? I'll tell you. It's for the Government to do those things that should be done. Yes, programs in the field of health for the aged, in social security, in education. We have them, but they are programs, my friends, which are built on this sound premise - that the way to greatness in America is not through just what the Federal Government does. The way to greatness in America is what the Government encourages 180 million free Americans to do for themselves - and that's what you believe in Teas, I know, as well as in the rest of the country. So, here's your choice. Remember 8 years ago. Do you want to go back? Do you want to go forward? We have the way, and we will lead you that way with your votes on November the 8th. Now I come to my second point - one that I make here in this hallowed ground of the Alamo. I do not consider any statement I've made in this campaign more significant, or more appropriate, than this one. My friends, the major decision you make this November will be about the survival of America. I don't mean just peace; I mean peace without surrender. I don't mean just freedom for us; I mean freedom for the whole world. You folks understand that down here. You believe in it deeply - the great tradition of Texans, not only at the Alamo, but throughout all of our history. After all, a great Texan is now President of the United States of America. And the question that you will answer on your ballots is this: Which of the two candidates for the Presidency can best lead America, apart from party, apart from anything else - which can best lead America and keep the peace without surrender, and extend freedom throughout the world? So, first, we look at our opponent's program and then we look at mine, and you take your choice. What does he say? Now look what he says: First, he says that as far as President Eisenhower is concerned his 8 years as leader of this country in the field of foreign policy were 8 years of retreat and defeat. Now, my friends, you know the answer. The adjectives are all right, but it's the wrong administration. He meant Truman. Incidentally, I notice that Mr. Kennedy has been complaining because President Eisenhower is supporting me for the Presidency. Believe me, I would be worried if I were he, with Truman on his side and Eisenhower on mine. Eisenhower doesn't cuss, but he sure says the right words at the right time. Yes, we had defeat and retreat; 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain. Do you remember? Do you remember Yalta? Do you remember Potsdam? And do you remember Korea? You remember how it happened? An American Secretary of State drew a line, and he said that Korea won't be defended, in effect. He thought that that meant peace. But it led to war, because the Communists, when he said come and get it, tried, and 150,000 American boys were casualties as a result. I say that was wrong. I say the American people will be forever grateful to President Eisenhower for ending the Korean war. And I say I will never make that mistake, and no American President should ever make it again by drawing that kind of line. So what does our opponent offer? Does he offer faith in America? Oh, no. He says America is second in science; America is second in education; America has the worst slums; it has the most crowded people; it has lost its sense of purpose. All these things he has said. Now, my friends, let me tell you this: A man who wants to be captain of the team shouldn't be selected if he's going to run down the team at home and abroad - and that's what he has been doing. I'll tell you the truth. There are things wrong with American education, but it's the best education in the world - and make no mistake about that. There are areas in science where we're not ahead. But overall we're far ahead of the Russians and everybody else, and he knows it, and I know it, and we can be thankful for that. The Russians got a head start in space. Why? Because they let them get a head start by not doing anything while they had the administration. But we've caught them, and now the space score on the number of shots is 28 to 8, and that's pretty good in football, and it's very good in space as well. My friends, I say it's time for the candidate to quit running down the United States and start speaking up for the United States. Now what about his foreign policy ? What would it be? I'll tell you. You've had three examples to prove it. Dwight Eisenhower has kept the peace. He's kept it without surrender for 7 years. How did he do it? By being firm, by being strong, by never being belligerent. Now look what our opponent would have done. You've heard him in this campaign. On Quemoy and Matsu, he would have made the same mistake as Korea, voting, as he has in many cases, different from his running mate, a distinguished citizen of Texas. He said, no, we're going to slice off a bit of freedom, and we're going to turn it over, in effect, to the Communists, because it's indefensible, and because it's only a few miles from the enemy. Now, my friends, was he right? No. The President was right, because 5 years ago the decision was made, and we've kept the peace there. So, he was wrong. The President was right. The second point: You remember the Paris Conference - Khrushchev insulting the President of the United States, Khrushchev saying to the President, "Apologize or express regrets or I'm going to break up this Conference." You remember the President said "No." He kept his dignity, but he did not apologize or express regrets. Then what did Mr. Kennedy do? He shot from the hip, but not like a Texan. He missed the mark, believe me. He shot from the hip and said, the President could have apologized, could have expressed regrets. Was he right? Was the President right? And the third point, on Cuba. Here again - and here's where belligerency comes in - the President said we're going to quarantine this little pipsqueak Castro, and we quarantined him by putting in effect economic restrictions on our trade. And then what did our opponent suggest? He shot from the hip again, and he suggested something that caused consternation all over the world. He suggested Government intervention in effect, in the affairs of Cuba. There was so much consternation that the next day he took it back and said, I didn't mean it. I just meant doing what the President was doing. And again he was wrong. In every one of these three instances, do you see what would have happened if he had been President? In Quemoy and Matsu, it might have meant war or it might have meant surrender. In Cuba, it might have meant war, by inviting the Communists in - civil war, which we couldn't stay out of. And in Paris - the U-2 flights - it would have meant certainly surrender of principle, and it would have encouraged Mr. Khrushchev to beat him to a pulp, because that's the only thing he understands. So, I say this to you: Consider these factors. Remember, as a candidate, he's taken back all three of these positions. But, you know, when you're President, you can't take them back. When you're President, when you make up your mind, and make a decision, it's for keeps. So I say to you, my friends, that we cannot afford in these times to have a man who is rash, who is impulsive, who shoots from the hits, who three times would have been wrong in these critical years. We can't afford to use the White House as a training school to give him experience at the expense of the American people and of the free world. Now may I return to the Alamo. What is the spirit we need today? Well, it's not the whining spirit that we hear from our opponent, and all this second-rate business about America, not the whining spirit about this island or that one being indefensible. What if the men in the Alamo had thought about what was defensible? What if they had been thinking about how close the enemy was? You know what would have happened. My friends, we need in Texas, we need in America. and we need in the world: the spirit of men of the Alamo, and we will have it under our leadership. What is that spirit? That spirit is this: That we believe in freedom. We believe in it and we are willing to stand for it in the councils of the world. What will we do for freedom? We will keep America the strongest nation in the world. Why? Because that's the way to keep the peace, unless and until our potential enemies reduce their strength, as we reduce ours. What else will we dog We will be firm at the conference table, firm without being belligerent. Why? Because that's the way to keep the peace. Because the policy of weakness, the policy of Acheson, the policy of Kennedy, would lead to surrender. And what else will we do? My friends, above all, we will keep before the people of America and the whole world the spirit of the men in the Alamo, and that spirit is this: Faith - a faith in the rightness of their cause; a faith in their God; a faith in their country; a faith in their ideals. This is what America needs today. We need this above everything else in this conflict. Listen, I have seen Mr. Khrushchev. I have seen the Communist world, and I know that we can win. But I know that the way to win is not only for us to keep our military strength and economic strength. Above all, we must have faith in the rightness of our cause. We must hold our ideals for peace, for freedom, for justice high before the world. If we do this, there is no question about the outcome. And, now, my friends I ask you: If you believe that my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I are the ones to lead America, if you believe that we have this faith, then I say: Give us your support.. Thank you.
[I am glad to be] here at the CBS studio in San Antonio, after speaking at the largest political meeting ever held in front of the Alamo here in San Antonio. Before making this speech I had a very inspiring experience. I laid a wreath at this shrine of Texas and of America. As I laid the wreath, I thought of the things I'm sure all of you listening to this program or viewing it would have thought of. I thought of the many Americans in our history who have fought and died for freedom. I thought, too, of the responsibilities that those who are in positions of leadership in this country have to keep the peace, keep the peace so that men will not have to die for freedom, but they can live for freedom, and tonight I would like to talk again on the subject of how we can keep the peace. Last night I discussed some of our diplomatic policies. Tonight I want to discuss the military policies that we must have if we are to keep the peace without surrender. First, because of the kind of enemies we have - I mean potential enemies, those who threaten the peace of the world - it is essential that the United States be the strongest nation in the world. It is necessary that we have enough strength, that regardless of what the Soviet Union or any other potential enemy of peace may have, if they should strike the first blow, we would have enough left to knock out their warmaking capability. Now, this kind of strength is essential for a very simple reason: We never want to use our strength for aggressive purposes. We only want to use it to keep the peace. In effect, we're the guardians of peace. The Communists, on the other hand, have dedicated themselves to the proposition of conquering the world. They mean to conquer it by any means, if necessary. At present at least the Soviet leaders say that they rule out war. On the other hand, if the time should ever come when their military strength was as great as ours or approached ours, then it would mean that the peace of the world would be in danger, and that is why it is essential then that America, be the strongest nation in the world, with the level of strength that I have just described. Now we come to the key question, a question that has been discussed in this campaign by my opponent and also by me: Is America the strongest nation in the world today? Well, there's no question about that. We are, and we shall continue to be, I pledge to you. Now, my opponent has said - and I quote him - that our defenses are shaky. First of all, let me say I think that is a very irresponsible statement by a presidential candidate particularly because, you see, what that does - it creates the impression abroad among our allies that we are shaky, that we are weak, and it also, I would imagine would create the same impression with Mr. Khrushchev and the other potential enemies of peace around the world. The other reason that it is irresponsible, however is more fundamental even than that. It's wrong. The U.S. defenses today are strong. They are not shaky, and my opponent knows this just as well as I know it, and just as well, incidentally, as Mr. Khrushchev knows it, because if the U.S. defenses were shaky you can be sure that Mr. Khrushchev would be pushing us around in the various sections of the world - in Berlin and in the other areas where we have called his bluff and where as a result of that, we have kept the peace, and kept it without surrender. So, let us look at our defenses just a moment. Let's see what we have. We know, of course, that we're strongest on the. sea. We know, too, that we have the strongest air force in the world, and with the greatest striking power. But I know a number of people have been concerned by what they call the missile gap. In fact people have said to me: Why did we ever allow such a gap to occur? Well, now, just to set the record straight, this administration inherited the missile gap. The reason that the Soviets got ahead in missiles in the first place and ahead in space was that they started their program immediately after World War II, and we had no program worthy of the name either in space or intercontinental ballistic missiles until after President Eisenhower took over; but then we have really moved since that time. We have been closing the gap, and we have been moving ahead in space. In space, for example, today - I think sometimes we read so many stories about space shots we forget what the score is - we've has 28 successful space shots. They have had eight. That's a pretty good score, and we're going to make it better as we move But looking at missiles, let's consider our strength there. We all have heard of our Atlas missile, with its very, very great ability to hit the target. We also have heard of Polaris. Look at what Polaris can do. Here is a weapon that the Soviets don't have at all - missiles on a submarine, under the water, submerged, so that it is the kind of weapon that cannot be destroyed by a surprise attack. This, in other words, is the ultimate guarantee of peace because, whatever the Soviets may do, these submarines beneath the sea will be ready to strike back. And you know how much of a load they carry? One Polaris submarine - just one - carries enough missiles to equal all the bombs dropped by both sides in World War II, including the two atom bombs. So, this is the kind of defense that Mr. Kennedy calls shaky. It is not shaky, my friends. It will not be shaky. Now, thus does not mean that we must not continue to move forward, of course. We must move forward because there are new breakthroughs every day in this field, and America must always be first. We must take advantage of these new technological discoveries, and we must move forward also because the Soviet is moving forward, and we must never let this gap, which presently exists between their strength and ours, a gap in our favor, be narrowed. As a matter of fact, we must increase it, increase it until the time comes when we can have real disarmament with inspection - and more about that later. In addition to this, of course, we need intelligence activities, and I want to talk very frankly about intelligence tonight, because this is a matter that has been discussed during this campaign, as you will recall, in our debates. Mr. Kennedy criticized President Eisenhower for allowing the U-2 flights - you know, the ones which we ordered over the Soviet Union, which gathered intelligence information to prepare us against surprise attack - he felt that President Eisenhower should have discontinued those flights when he was meeting with Mr. Khrushchev at the Paris conference. I think he's wrong on that point. I think the President was right, and I want to tell you why. You remember Pearl Harbor? Right at the time we were negotiating with the Japanese they struck at Pearl Harbor - and that's the history of dictators. At the very time they are talking sweet they're acting tough - and I say with Mr. Khrushchev or with any other potential enemy of the United States we must never allow an intelligence gap. And I tell you also tonight that we are moving forward in this field, moving forward to what will be, I am sure, a spectacular breakthrough, in which the United States, without the necessity of having flights over the Soviet Union, will get intelligence information which will make it impossible for the Soviet to prepare a surprise attack without our knowing it. And this is the kind of progress I assure you you will have in my administration, if I have the opportunity to serve you as President of the United States. Now, up to this time we have been talking about strength, and I have talked very feelingly about it, because, having sat opposite Mr. Khrushchev at the conference table, I know that's all he understands. He understands when he realizes he's up against a nation that is stronger than he is and that will not be pushed around at the conference table or in any other way, and when he understands that, it means that he does not blackmail us, blackmail us into surrender of principle or surrender of territory. But, my friends, it isn't enough for America just to be strong. It isn't enough simply to hide behind our tremendous military strength and say: Here we are. We're going to guard the peace and to allow this race to go on and on and on. We also have to be champions of peace, champions of peace all over the world, champions of peace with Mr. Khrushchev, champions of peace with the Soviet people themselves. What do I mean by that? I mean that we must constantly do what President Eisenhower has done - be willing to negotiate; be willing to go the extra mile in discussing means where we can disarm with inspection, where we can stop tests with inspection. Why do I emphasize this inspection? Well, for the reasons I'm sure you've already guessed. If we ever have disarmament in this world, disarmament without inspection, in which the strength of the Soviet Union relative to that of the United States is increased, the risk of war increases. In other words, disarmament without inspection increases the risk of war. It's only disarmament with inspection that will reduce the risk of war. So, I pledge to you that, with my colleague, Cabot Lodge, to whom I am going to give special assignments in this field, we will take the initiative at every opportunity to deal with Mr. Khrushchev and to work out whatever arrangement we can that will provide inspection for disarmament, for tests, for all these other items which I am discussing tonight. And now we come to the key question, and one again I want to talk to you very frankly about. Is there any chance - is there any chance - that Mr. Khrushchev will ever agree unless we do agree to give him what he wants, and that is disarmament without inspection? And my answer is: Yes; I believe so. I believe so, my friends, because Mr. Khrushchev, above everything else, is no fool. He's a realist. He knows the power of Polaris submarine missiles. He knows the power of nuclear bombs, and he knows that if war comes, his country will be destroyed, too. He does not want that, I am sure. I remember what Chancellor Adenauer told me on his last visit to the United States. We were talking about whether Mr. Khrushchev could be dealt with in this field of disarmament, and Chancellor Adenauer, a very wise man, said: Well, he said, there's no doubt that Mr. Khrushchev wants to conquer the world. He wants a Communist world. He wants to rule the world. But, he said, there's also no doubt that Mr. Khrushchev wants to rule the world of live people. He doesn't want to rule a world of ruined cities and dead people. So, I think this gives us the point, the point which does give us some hope that there is a way out of this terrible dilemma, and the hope is that the very power of the weapons that we've created will force those - not us, because we're willing, but those - who are the enemies of peace, and those who would use this power to conquer the world, to see the light, which means that we must mutually disarm, and that then we shall compete, but compete in peace. And tomorrow night I want to discuss that point with you, because I am convinced that we can keep the peace, keep it because of our strength, keep it because of our diplomatic firmness. But also we must remember that we are in a great struggle which does not involve arms, but which involves the struggle for the minds and the hearts and souls of men, and this struggle will determine the future of the world. This struggle will determine whether men will be free or whether they will be slaves. This struggle we can and we will win, and I intend tomorrow night at this same time to tell you how we can win the struggle for freedom, and win without war. Thank you very much.
Last minute opposition tactics are becoming more and more desperate. Yesterday, in Amarillo, Mr. Kennedy charged me with using what he called "the blackmailer's tactic" in dealing with the farm problem. By now my opponent has obviously decided to bury his own fantastic farm program and, instead, to fill the air with ominous sounding countercharges. What does he object to? He objects to my indictment of his farm program as threatening intolerable bureaucratic controls on our farmers and ranchers, and of raising the price of food by 25 percent. He says this sets city against country. He is the one who, if he gets his way, would set city against country. I did not dream up this indictment. Career experts of the U.S. Department of Agriculture objectively analyzed his proposals - as he himself said in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., they could do "without difficulty" - and made public a report setting forth their conclusions. I have challenged him to disprove it. He has not done so. He cannot, because it is based on hard, real analysis. Nor is this the only evidence available to the American people. Henry A. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture under President Franklin D. Roosevelt - and certainly no political ally of mine - says that the Kennedy farm plan will result in controls on farmers stricter than those imposed in many Communist countries. Why will the Kennedy farm plan mean police-state type controls? The 60 percent of American agriculture that has, until now, been virtually free would be brought under rigid control of Washington deskbound farmers and ranchers. That means controls on cattlemen and other agricultural producers here in Wyoming and elsewhere. A slashing of 20 percent of U.S. agricultural marketings would have to be carried out under the Kennedy farm plan. That would include a 14- to 17-percent cutback in marketings of cattle and calves. It would mean a 38- to 46-percent cutback in wheat, and so on down the line. The experts flatly say that under the Kennedy farm plan, a million jobs would be cut out of the farm and another million lost in the towns and cities by workers who transport, process, and handle crops. The experts further say that to carry out the Kennedy farm plan would require an additional 50,000 Federal inspectors to enforce the new controls on our farms and ranches. Penalties would have to be severe and jail sentences would zoom for noncompliance. Another prospective effect of all this on the price of food - say the experts - is to jump the price of food by 25 percent. These are the facts Mr. Kennedy objects to hearing and to having you hear. This is what farm and ranch people ought to know about this totalitarian farm plan. This is what consumers ought to know about it. I challenge him again - as I have for weeks - to defend his farm folly, or forget it. The American people are waiting.
My friend, Keith Thomson, Bill Harrison, Governor Simpson; all of the distinguished guests here on the platform; this great audience here in the auditorium, and the much greater audience, in size, which is listening on television and radio, and those outside who couldn't get in, we want you to know that we're very happy to be in wonderful Wyoming today. As you can tell, I developed a little hoarseness from a long day of campaigning in Texas yesterday. I can only tell you that the reason for it was that our crowds at every place - in Houston, at the Alamo in San Antonio and then in Fort Worth - were the biggest in history. And today, as we move on through Wyoming, we sense a great tide running in our direction that means victory on November the 8th. I particularly want to pay my respects to, and to urge your support for your candidates here in the State of Wyoming - for Keith Thomson who has rendered splendid service in the House of Representatives, and who will make a great Senator from this State - and from what I have heard, he is going to be your Senator in the U.S. Senate; for Bill Harrison, who, as Governor Simpson indicated, is a man who has superb qualifications, who knows the needs of this State of Wyoming, but who, in addition to that, has an understanding of the problems of the Nation. For him, too, I urge your support, and also for those running for the State legislature as well, and others who are on this platform today. Now, as we get into the final days of a campaign, some of the issues begin to shape up, and I've learned from my continued appearances here in the State of Wyoming that you are a very straight-talking people. You like to lay it right on the line, and I'm going to do that today. First of all, I'm going to tell you what the choice is on November the 8th. It's very simple. It's a fateful choice for the American people. It's more important than whether we're Democrats or Republicans. It involves the future of America, and we've got to put America first and party second, as we vote on November the 8th. I say that, as you make this choice, you're going to determine which road America takes for the next 4 years. You're going to determine whether America goes forward, whether we build on the polices of the last 8 years - the policies that brought peace to America, that kept us out of war, that got us out of the war that we were in, that brought the greatest progress that America has ever had - or whether we turn back to the policies we left 8 years ago, which were a mess then and are worse today. As a matter of fact, that word "worse" slipped out, because they're worse than the policies of Harry Truman in some respects, as I will point out in just a moment. Now, my friends, when I say these things, I know that immediately you have in your minds some of the campaign oratory which has been passing through the State of Wyoming other States, and I'd like to nail just a little bit of it right herein Wyoming. First, I said that we've had the greatest progress in these past 7½ years of any administration in history. But you hear my opponent saying: America has been standing still, and we've got to get her going again. Therefore, this is a time for greatness. Vote for me. I am the great man. Doesn't he know that President Eisenhower is one of the greatest Presidents we've ever had? Well, the American people do. I might suggested that to anybody who says that America is standing still - they ought to come to Casper. Look at what has happened here in the last 7½ years. As I drove in, as I saw all of the oil drilling equipment areas, as I saw the great plants that have been developed, I realized the tremendous progress that has taken place right here in Wyoming during that period. And I say that you want to go forward and don't want to go back now. I say that you want to build on the policies that we have developed, that you don't want to have another chance at the policies that we left before. Now, let's get down to some specifies. First of all, looking at the economy of this area right here, how did this develop? Why was it that so many people were able to come into this State, discover the oil, the gas deposits that were here, and greatly enrich the State of Wyoming and the Nation in the process? I'll tell you why it happened. It wasn't because Government came in and did it, but it was cause Government adopted policies that encouraged individuals to take a chance and to invest. My friends, I believe in individual enterprise. My policies will encourage individual enterprise. My opponent by virtually every utterance shows his lack of faith in the American people and the individual enterprise system. And they're going to vote against him, because they have faith in themselves, even if he doesn't have faith in them. He has shown that lack of faith by wanting to turn over this problem and that one to the Federal Government. He shows that lack of faith by his desire to impose controls on the economy of this country. He shows that lack of faith in his farm program. He shows that lack of faith in his equivocal attitude, for example, on the oil depletion allowance. Of course, he has running with him his running mate, who has to be for the depletion allowance. He, on the other hand, has to explain the fact that he voted against it - and he also has to be concerned about the fact, as he was in our debates, that there was mixed feeling in this part of the country and in other parts of the country as to what ought to be done. And so - being called on one side or the other, some of his supporters saying, "Mr. Kennedy, you've got to keep doing what you used to do; vote to cut this allowance," and others of his supporters saying, "vote to keep this allowance" Senator Kennedy says, well I'm going to study it. My friends, he's had plenty of time to study it - 14 years. If he hasn't made up his mind at this point, he won't make up his mind as President, and I say we're going to vote for somebody who has made up his mind, and that is what I have done. Let me put this in terms, though, that all of us will understand and appreciate. This isn't simply a question of something that lawyers and tag commissioners are concerned about. This isn't a question of what we do to help the rich oil men get richer. This is a question of how we develop the resources of America. And the reason we need this allowance is that we have got to encourage not the big companies, but the individual enterpriser, the wildcatter, and the others, to go out and discover these things. For you here in Wyoming, it's a question, too, of your jobs. It's a question of the taxes which come from this industry that we're talking about. This is the kind of philosophy that we have, and I don't know of any one issue that greater shows the difference in attitude of the two candidates than this one. I have confidence in individual enterprise. I want every Government policy to encourage it. My opponent apparently lacks confidence in individuals, and that's why he has programs that would discourage individual enterprise. There's your choice, and I have no doubt about what the individuals of Wyoming are going to do on November the 8th. Now, let's turn to a second point about which people of Wyoming are concerned. America has been standing still, he says. He specifically says that America has been standing still in reclamation. Now, I've been nailing that all over the West, ever since this campaign began, but I think it's just as well to nail it right here in Wyoming, which knows reclamation, which knows the facts, You know what the truth is, and that's the trouble with my opponent's promises and oratory. The reason he's slipping now in this campaign is that the truth is catching up with him every place around the country. You know, for example, that in the field of reclamation there have been 30 percent more new starts in this administration than in the previous administration. You know, for example, that in the field of reclamation one dollar out of three that have been invested in reclamation in this Nation's history, has been invested by this administration. You know, also, if you study the record, that the greatest reclamation project in history, the Upper Colorado, was initiated and approved by this administration. And, if you will also study the record, you will find that my opponent was recorded against that particular project. So, I say this Pied Piper from Boston shouldn't come out here to the West and say who is for or against reclamation. My friends, the people of the West know that I have always supported these projects. They know that I have led the fight within the administration in these particular areas, and I think they know who their friends are - and they're not going to have a Jackie-come-lately come in here and say he's for reclamation now, and he's changed his mind. We're going to build on that record. That's why we're going to have a program of new starts. Why do we need them? Because America's got to continue to grow. We've got to build this great West of ours, and the way that we build it is through developing its natural resources as well as its human resources, and I pledge to you that under our leadership we will build them. Under their leadership, you'll go back again to the kind of stagnation that we got rid of in 1953. Now, let's take another point: the farm program. A lot of folks out here are interested in farming. A lot of you are interested in ranching, particularly cattle ranching, and some of you in wheat or sugar beets. I know something about the economy. There's a tremendous interest. What kind of farm program are we going to have? I think that this campaign reached its height in the use of language that was nondescriptive when my opponent said that I was using blackmail tactics as far as my discussion of the farm program was concerned. The trouble was that he was describing his own farm program, rather than mine when he used the word "blackmail." Let me tell you what it would do, how it would blackmail the farmers and ranchers of America. At the present time, as you know there are certain crops that are covered by mandatory supports. At the present time as you also know, the problem, in this whole area, is that of surplus. As long as you have got these surpluses overhanging the market, on the farmer's back, you're going to have prices and farm income depressed. So, the key to the problem - and this is my program - is to lift the surpluses off the farmer's back, off the Nation's back, off the taxpayer's back. And what is that key ? That key is not a program of scarcity, not one of cutting down markets, but one of expanding them, expanding them abroad, expanding them at home, expanding uses of farm products. And I have a program, Operation Consume, which I announced in my farm speech in South Dakota, which will do exactly that. Now what does my opponent say? Again he shows a lack of faith in the future of America. He shows a lack of faith in what individual farmers can do. He says this problem is too big for the farmers; not only too big for the farmers who are already under controls, but also for those growing the other 250 products that are not controlled. So, he said - now, get this - that we will set up a program in which every crop that is grown in the United States, whether it's wheat or corn or tomatoes or chickens, or anything of that sort, is controlled. How ? By the Federal Government. The Federal Government of course, will have to hire some people - 50,000 new inspectors. And what will they do? They're the ones who come in and they'll tell the farmers, the ranchers, the growers of America, when they can grow things, where they can grow them, how much they can grow, what they can sell them for and when they can sell them. That is his program. But here's the catch. The blackmail, the Pied Piper tactic here, is to say: "Look, come along with me, because, if you do, I'm going to raise your farm prices." But the catch - and here's what all the farmers and ranchers of America, are going to know - is the price. The price is, (1) these Federal inspectors controlling, the lives of our farmers; and (2) they say we'll raise your prices if you will let us cut your production. You know what they would do to cattle production? First they would impose controls. Second, they'd fix the prices. And then they would cut cattle distribution as far as markets are concerned by 20 percent. They would cut wheat acreage by 35 to 40 percent, and you could go right on dawn the line. My friends, they would drive, through this program, a million farmers and farmworkers off the farms of America. Let me tell you one other thing. These figures that I'm giving are not mine. These are figures that my opponent himself said he would rely on, because in his own farm speech he said that the career employees of the Department of Agriculture could figure out the cost of his program, and its consequences. And, so, they have announced this. They have announced what it would require. And I say to you the farmers and ranchers of America don't want any part of a program that's going to cut their acreage and impose controls on them worse than in any country in the world that we have at the present time. Now, some of you might say: "Well, that goes pretty far, Mr. Vice President." They're not my words. They're Henry Wallace's. He's not particularly conservative, as you know. And what did he say about it? He said that this farm program was one that would impose controls that in some respects were more rigid than those even in Communist countries. My friends, this we cannot have. This is turning back. It's turning the wrong way. The way to greatness in America is not to turn toward totalitarian methods, but to turn toward freedom and a program of productivity for America. I could give other examples, but this proves the point. This shows you what you're up against, and I think can best summarize the programs of our opponents by saying that they would cost, in dollars $15 billion a year more annually of Federal money. Federal money, did I say? That's your money. And may I say in that respect, that if you pay for the promises that this man has been making, it means higher taxes and higher prices for all of the American people. Now, I know the suggestion has been made : "Well, we won't take it from the poor people - we'll take it from the rich." For example, they will fool around with the depletion allowance, except when they are talking in Texas - then they won't say that - or when they are talking in Wyoming, they say, "Oh, we'll get it out of the rich here by closing tax loopholes." Let me tell you something. If we were to confiscate - get this - very dollar of income in excess of $10,000 from everybody earning over $10,000 a year - that is, take everybody who earns $10,000, and take every dollar they made over $10,000 - and turn it over to the Federal Government, and then try to apply it to pay for these promises, it would still mean that you would only pay about 30 percent of the bill. You would have to go to the people earning less than $10,000 for 70 percent of this $15 billion. My friends, I know what it means to meet family budgets. I grew up in a family where my father and my mother really had to work to put us through school, to pay the doctor bills, to pay the grocery bills. I know what it means for retired people living on pensions and social security to have their Government break faith with them, as the previous administration did, and cut the value of the dollar in half when their income stays the same. I know this, and I will be for spending every Federal dollar that's necessary, but I'm against spending one nickel at Washington that can be better spent back here in Wyoming or in any other State in the country. And let me just suggest this: there is not a group that would suffer as much as, and none perhaps more than, the farmers in this respect - because the farmers have a cost-price squeeze, as you know. Farm prices go up, but also the prices of the things you buy go up; and as far as the farmers are concerned nobody should be in a government that does what it should, but spends no more than is necessary, than the farmers, because as farm costs and taxes and prices go up it means that squeeze gets worse and worse. So, here again the choice is clear, and I think I know what the farmers of Wyoming and the rest of this Nation will do in that respect. The final point I want to make involves the future of this country. It involves the future of all nations in the world. There's nothing more important than this point. I will not discuss it at length, because we have discussed it so much in this campaign. My friends, the most fateful choice you will make is: which of the two candidates can best lead America and the free world, keep the peace without surrender, and extend freedom without war? All that I can say in this respect is that the choice is between our ticket - our ticket, which has been trained by and under President Eisenhower; our ticket, which has worked for 7½ years in an administration that has been successful in keeping America out of war and avoiding surrender; our ticket, both of whom know Khrushchev, have never been taken in by him, always been firm, never belligerent - or their ticket - their ticket, which says that our foreign policy has failed; their ticket, which says that America in so many fields is second rate; their ticket, which says, in effect, that President Eisenhower's leadership has been one of retreat and defeat in the field of foreign policy; their ticket, whose leader disagreed with the President on Quemoy and Matsu. He would have made the wrong decision; he would have surrendered some islands of freedom and invited war - and again suggested to the President that he could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev; and then finally, he would have made a fatal error on Cuba which would have lost us all of our friends in the Americas and most of them in the rest of the world. My friends, it's a choice between the men that you know, men who have had experience, and men who are inexperienced - and particularly one who has shown a tendency to shoot from the hip, who has been wrong three times on great decisions in these past 5 years. My friends, your choice, I think, is clear. Of course, in all fairness, I've got to admit that those who support the Senator say, "But, Mr. Nixon a he has changed his mind." They say he now agrees with the President on Quemoy and Matsu, that he doesn't mean he wanted to give up those islands. He now agrees with the President on the summit conference - he doesn't believe he could have apologized. He now agrees with the President on Cuba - he didn't mean Federal intervention in Cuba. But, my friends, remember this: I've been in the Office of the President when he's made great decisions. I was there the day he went into Lebanon. It's a very lonely decision a man has to make, because he doesn't get a second chance. A candidate can say something one day, take it back the next, and the country is no worse for it. A President has to decide, and when he decides, if it's wrong, it can mean war or disaster. If he's right, it can mean peace with honor - and that's what it has been with President Eisenhower. And I say to you, my friends, that whatever the good intentions are, however many mistakes have been made and corrected by my opponent in this campaign, that in this critical period we cannot afford to use the White House as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the American people. There is your choice, the choice at home of going forward or back, of building on the great progress that we have made - building toward better schools, better hospitals, better medical care for our older people - of providing all the good things of life, but doing it through allowing Americans to do everything they can for themselves and Government doing everything that people will not do for themselves; and in the foreign field, a choice between experience and known qualities, and inexperience and the chance that a mistake, out of the best of intentions, could set off the disaster that we do not want. My friends, I think you know what the answer is. This is bigger, as I said, than whether you're a Republican or a Democrat. A Nation is at stake. The cause of freedom is at stake. The peace of the world is at stake. And I say, if you believe that, then whatever you are - Republicans or Democrats - let's vote for what is best for America; and that will be best for Wyoming. Thank you.
In New Orleans in 1952, President Eisenhower pledged legislation to confirm the titles of the States to the tidelands. That legislation passed the Senate in 1953 over the all-out resistance of 25 Senators. Senator Kennedy was one. Today he asks your support, but 7 years ago he withheld his own support. On May 5, 1953, he denounced this legislation as a giveaway, and charged that it allowed a few States and companies to exploit resources belonging to all people of the United States. Today, instead of Senator Kennedy, we have Candidate Kennedy. Candidate Kennedy talks a different tongue. The Supreme Court ruled that Texas and Florida have a rightful claim to more submerged lands than the other States. Now my opponent says he is for "equity." What does he mean by "equity"? He thought the tidelands bill was dead wrong. Would he now, in equity, like to repeal it? Would he equalize all States at zero? Would he like to cut back what Texas and Florida now have? The sentiment for repeal does in fact exist. On October 18, Senator Jackson, Senator Kennedy's party chairman, repeated his 1953 charge that the tidelands legislation was a giveaway. He said, in effect, that he favored its repeal, except that he concluded by the time the repealer could be passed, the oil would be gone. The point is this: Men so minded are enemies of States rights. Where does my opponent stand? I challenge him to tell you. I challenge him to come here and tell you that he does not share his party chairman's view that the tidelands bill was a giveaway. I challenge him to prove he and Jackson and Schlesinger and Galbraith and Bowles would have one sliver of concern for States' rights such as President Eisenhower and I have repeatedly demonstrated. Another thing: On the 27½-percent depletion allowance for oil and gas, let him say just three words - "I support it," or these three: "I oppose it." Those words coming from him would have the merit of clearing the air, if he dares to have it cleared. My stand is clear and consistent. I believe that an adequate domestic supply of crude oil is essential to national defense. Imports of foreign-produced crude oil and refined products should be held as nearly as practicable to the point where they will supplement, and not supplant, domestic oil and refined products. Such a program must be administered in a manner which will maintain a healthy domestic oil-producing industry with adequate crude oil reserves for a national emergency, while at the same time furnishing the consumers of America with a plentiful supply of petroleum products at a reasonable price. But from him we have- (1) The Los Angeles platform, announcing its intention to make changes in the tax laws. It says, "Among the more conspicuous loopholes are depletion allowances which are inequitable." (2) We have their vice presidential candidate saying that their presidential candidate would never touch the depletion allowances for oil and gas, though oil and gas account for more than 70 percent of all depletion allowances. (3) We have Mr. Bowles, the author of the Los Angeles platform, explaining that "* * * we are probably throwing away revenues - the oil depletion allowance, for example." Finally, we have categorical Jack. With impressive finality he says, "I believe we should study this and other allowances." On this troubled subject of the oil and gas depletion allowance, my position can be put in three words: "I support it." From Senators Kennedy and Johnson and the platform and Bowles come veiled threats, nervously besmogged by their adaptable vice presidential nominee. On depletion allowances, I offer a pledge. My opponent offers a gamble. Which do you want?
Thank you very much. I just can't believe it when I see this crowd. We had a perfectly wonderful day yesterday, as some of you may have heard. When I came in at the airport, I recounted it. We started at Columbia, S.C., where Governor Byrnes introduced me, and Allan Shivers was there and other Southern leaders. On that occasion it was the biggest crowd ever held for a Presidential candidate of either party in Columbia. The same thing happened when we got to the Alamo in San Antonio a little later in the day. The same thing happened in Houston last night - not only the biggest crowd ever in Houston, but it was probably the greatest night rally of this campaign which has been held by either candidate, from the reports I have received. Then we came in at the airport at 11 o'clock last night. I know, because I didn't get much sleep last night. Neither did you if you were at the airport. There was a massive crowd with flashlights welcoming us. It was a sight we will never forget. And now this morning at 8 o'clock, here you are as far as the eye can reach, here in Burnett Park. And I only want to say to the people of Fort Worth, of Dallas, and of all the surrounding counties: Thank you for giving us a tremendous lift toward victory on November 8. I also want to say that I am very proud to be here with my fellow candidates. John Tower, as I have said on several occasions, is one of the best qualified men to be a Senator of the United States that it has been my privilege to meet. And he has the courage to run for one office rather than two. I also want to say that I had a very interesting morning. I got up early enough to read the papers. And, my, what a fairyland I read about, because it seems both Lyndon and Jack have been around in Texas, too. But, you know, they got here too little and too late, and, boy, are they frantic. I saw a big one-page ad saying that all these Democrats are for Kennedy and Johnson - and they're even voting dead people. They used to do that, but they're not going to get away with it this time. My friends, they can try to vote every tombstone in Texas, but we're going to lick them in Texas, I'll tell you that. Let me say, too, that as far as we're concerned, we're glad we've got a lot of Democrats here, but ours are all live Democrats. We're not trying to vote any dead ones. And then another story that I noticed, in the fairytale line, was where Lyndon went out to the Convair plant here and told those folks: "Now, look here, you've got to vote for us because if you don't this Californian Nixon is going to take all the contracts away from Texas and take them to California." You know, he should have checked with Jack before he said that, because Jack had just been out in California and said: "We're going to bring the contracts to California." Now, what's he going to do about that? Do you know what? He also should have checked with Jack, because Jack was just up in Pennsylvania and West Virginia and the like and he told them up there: "I'm going to bring the defense contracts up here so that you folks can have them." Now, Jack can't take them to California and Pennsylvania and leave them here in Texas with Lyndon. They've got to get together on this and a few other things before they can ask for the votes of Texans. But do you know what it is, that rather foolish ad? After all, when people are dead and when they're not for you, it's going to come out. And this idea of trying to frighten the people - a last-minute tactic - saying this Californian is going to steal all your contracts, do you know what that is? They're scared, and they have got a right to be because they're going to lose Texas and they're going to lose the Nation on November the 8th. Do you know why? Because they've been kicking Texas in the teeth long enough and Texans are tired of it and they don't want any part of it. Do you know why! Because the people of Texas are thinking of this election not in terms of Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans, and they know what leadership America needs. Do you know why? Because they know, as far as defense contracts are concerned, that I stand as the President has stood, for the United States being the strongest Nation in the world, as I indicated in my television broadcast last night. And we have got to continue to build our strength in view of Soviet developments so that at all times we have the strength, regardless of what they do, to knock out their warmaking capability. Now, to do that, we have got to use the skills of Texans, of Californians, of all Americans to do this job. I can assure you that we are going to remember that no State in the Union has done a better job than the State of Texas on defense contracts, and certainly Texas is going to get its fair sharer - you can be sure of that - under my administration. And then I want to add this: I noted some comments with regard to the farm program. Well, now, when farmer Kennedy starts talking about the farm program it really worries me a little. But he ought to say the same thing in Texas as he did up in South Dakota, you know, because these things catch up with you. Now, we all know that the farm program is one of our most difficult problems. We all know, incidentally, that one of the reasons that it's difficult is that there has been a stalemate between the legislative and executive branches of the Government. We all know that for the last 6 years we have been unable to get legislation on which the President and the Congress would agree, so, what we've got to do is to break that stalemate. What we've got to do, as I have indicated in my farm program, is to get the surpluses off the backs of the country and the taxpayers, but mainly off the backs of the farmers. If we get those surpluses off their backs, the farmers are going to move ahead. But, my friends, the way to greater prosperity on the farm is not to go back to a program which our friends on the other side would do - a program of managed scarcity. What we want to do is to go forward with a program where we develop new markets for cotton at home and abroad, and all these other products, allow our farmers to have increased production and increased markets abroad - and that means new farm income for them. That's the kind of farm program we will have. And I'll tell you this: There isn't any question but that as far as the various programs my opponent has offered in this campaign are concerned, his farm program is the most radical. It is the most unworkable. It is one which the people of America, whether they're farmers or consumers, simply couldn't stomach. And that program I think, by itself, is enough reason to defeat any man who would advocate it for the Presidency. What does it do to the farmer? Do you know what it does to the farmer? It extends not just to the major commodities, cotton and wheat, corn, et cetera, which are presently supported, but to all 250 commodities grown in this country. Suppose you grow a few chickens; suppose you produce eggs; suppose you grow tomatoes - those things, of course, are not covered by farm programs today. They'll extend them to all. You hire 50,000 new Federal police inspectors, and these people come in and they tell the farmer what to grow, how much he can grow, when he can sell it, what he can sell it for. They put the farmers, in other words, on the Federal payroll at the mercy of Federal bureaucrats. Listen, that isn't the way that individualistic Texas got to the place it did, or that the individuals in the United States got to the place they did. That's going back - and we're not going to do it. And if you have any doubts about it, did you read what Henry Wallace said? He's sure no conservative, but he said this was the most radical program - he said it was even too radical for him when he was in the Government. So, you can certainly see what I mean. My friends, here again we see this same formula - promise them everything. When you're in New England, tell them what they want to hear. When you're in California, tell them what they want to hear. But do you know what's happening? Our opponents' promises are catching up with them, catching up with them all over the United States, because they're beginning to cross each other. And finally, as the people begin to hear these promises clashing with each other, they realize, as I have indicated in occasion after occasion, that what we have is a modern-day Pied Piper trying to pipe the people of the United States down a road which seems like one that leads into a bright new future over new frontiers, but which is going, to lead them right down the road to disaster, which will lead them right back to policies that we left 7½ years ago. My friends, America is a great country. It's a great country, however, because we have never gone back. We have always gone forward, and we're not going to go back now. We're going to go forward with our policies. Now, I said a moment ago that they had been kicking Texas in the teeth. Let's look at the record a minute. Look at tidelands. My opponent voted against the position of Texas. Now, he says he's changed his mind, but how do you know? Let's look at these things he's changed his mind on. He voted against tidelands. Now he's for it. He voted against TVA. Now he's for it. He voted against the President on Quemoy and Matsu. Now he says he's with the President. He said the President was wrong in his conduct at the Paris conference, that he should have apologized or expressed regrets. Now he says he really didn't mean it that way. He disagreed with the President on Cuba, but now he says his position is really about the same as the President's. Over and over again, we find him saying one thing one day and another thing another day, as soon as he reads the polls or hears the people. All I can say is this: In this critical time, the decisions of a President of the United States affect the lives of 180 million Americans. In this critical time a President of the United States, if his decision is wrong, won't have a chance to take it back. If it's wrong, it could mean war or surrender to Americans. In this critical time, I say we can't have a jumping jack as President of the United States of America. Let's go back to your domestic issues just a moment. Regarding tidelands, people say, well, now wait a minute. That's settled. Oh, no, look at what our friend, the candidate on the other side, says. After all, he also has a party he has responsibility to, and the chairman of his party and others have said: Well, the tidelands decision was always wrong, and they can change it. Let's take oil depletion. Let me put it in the right context. Too often people talk about oil depletion in terms where these great, rich oil men, the big companies, are really living off the fat of the land because they're getting a tag break that other folks aren't getting. Let me tell you something. What is involved in oil depletion in Texas, and in California where I came from, is not only the big companies, but what is involved are little companies. I remember the first corporation I set up as a lawyer. It was called the Critton-Colvin Co I'll never forget that one, of course. You know what it was? It was just a small group of people who had gotten together. They had been oil field roughnecks. They set up a little corporation to drill an oil well. It was a wildcat well. They happened to strike. They didn't make a lot of money, but they made enough so that the corporation came out in the black. But I was going to say this: I set up some other corporations for the same thing people putting their money together, going out, drilling for oil, and they lost money. Now, here's what the point is, my friends: The reason we've got to have an oil deletion allowance is that we've got to encourage people, not just the big people, but the little people who are willing to take a chance to go out and find and make America richer. That's what we're trying to do. And do you know what else is involved? You know your schools are involved in this. How do you maintain the Texas school system? One of the reasons is that you have such a tremendous productivity in oil, and the same is true of California. How do you do it? How do you do these things? Well, the reason I favor the oil depletion allowance is that I realize that this is the way to greater wealth for America. I realize as Arthur Flemming, who is the former head of the Office of Defense Mobilization, has often emphasized, that America's security demands this, because we simply cannot, as long as there is any possibility of war, rely only on our imports from abroad in this field of oil. Now, let's look at this. I am for the oil depletion allowance. Where does my opponent stand? Well here again we've got this split personality, this schizophrenia. There's no question about Lyndon. He's for it, at least publicly. Now, what about my opponent? He says he's going to think about it. He's going to study it. Well, we've been studying it for the last generation. He's been voting against it, too, for the last 7½ years, and I say that Texas, which needs this allowance, is not going to take a chance on him when they know what I'm going to do as President of the United States to protect the interests of Texas. There's one other point I want to make, and this is the most important one. I said take a chance. That's really the question before the American people today. You know the kind of government that Cabot Lodge and I stand for, because we've been part of this administration. You also know that we've had the greatest progress in history in these last 7½ years. Look around you. Look at the tremendous development in the Fort Worth-Dallas area. You know all these things. You know, too, that under President Eisenhower's wise policy of strength and firmness and no belligerence, we have kept the peace; we have avoided surrender; we have avoided war. And, my friends, the question is: Do you want to go forward with leadership that is going to build on this great strength, this great prosperity, this peace that we have - build on it and extend it - or do you want to take a chance. Do you want to take a chance on your peace? Do you want to take a chance on your social security, your pensions, by allowing them to cut them in half? Do you you want to take a chance on your jobs? That's what is involved, because, you see, when a man goes around the country promising everything to everybody, $15 billion worth of promises, you know what it means. It means not only that the people have to pay for it, but it means, as it meant in times past, that we are going to have a situation where millions of people, living on fixed incomes, will have their incomes cut by higher taxes or higher prices or both. It means that millions of people living on wages are going to find it more difficult to balance their budgets, because of higher taxes or higher prices or both. You say: "But didn't I read in the paper where Mr. Kennedy said he was against raising taxes? Didn't I read in the paper where he said he was for a balanced budget?" Yes; you did, but you also read in the paper about all these promises he's been making. You also read in the paper about his platform in Los Angeles. The promises and the platform cost $15 billion, and you cannot do that, balance the budget, and not raise taxes. He knows it, and the people of America know it, and that's why they're going to vote against him on election day. Take a chance - and you take a chance on your jobs. I'll tell you why. Because, my friends, we have here an almost pathological obsession, a pathological obsession that people aren't capable of taking care of themselves and that we've got to turn everything over to the Federal Government. This means adopting policies which, whatever they may call them, are anti-individual enterprise and will discourage individual enterprise. And, my friends, how are we going to get more jobs for America? Not by a policy that discourages individual enterprise, but by one that encourages it. May I say this: there is no chance, in my opinion, of a slump or a recession. This one that my opponent has conjured up out of his mind - if we go forward with our policies. But let me also warn you of this: if you go back to policies that will cheapen our dollar so that people will have no faith and confidence in the future of America, policies that will discourage individual enterprise, it means that you would choke off the very lifeblood that produces jobs. My friends, why go back to policies that in 20 years never produced prosperity except in war, or as a result of war? I say, no. We're not going to do it. My last point: Take a chance - and you take a chance on your peace. Why do I say take a chance? Because, my friends, as I indicated a moment ago, the business of keeping the peace is not easy. The men in the Kremlin are going to make trouble for us, because they want the world. We've got to have leadership that is wise, leadership that is determined, leadership that is firm, and leadership, particularly, that doesn't shoot from the hip. Three times in this campaign - on Quemoy and Matsu, on Cuba, at Paris - my opponent would have done differently from the President, and that could have led to either war or surrender. My friends, I say that we cannot use the White House as a training school for a man to get experience, as President of the United States, at the expense of the American people. And what do we offer you? We don't tell you: elect us and you've got no problems. No. That isn't the way to greatness in America. We say : if you elect us, we're going to give Americans a chance to be great, give the American people a chance to be great, and you will make America a great country by what you do. That's our philosophy, and that's what you want. We don't say: elect us and we're going to take all your responsibilities away because the Federal Government is going to do everything. We say: elect us and the Federal Government will do everything that needs to be done, but we will always remember that individual enterprise is what made America great. Nor do we tell you: elect us. There are no problems in the world. But we do say this: we both know Mr. Khrushchev. We have not been fooled by him, and we are going to keep America strong. We're going to see to it that America continues to build its strength, continues, however, at the same time to work for freedom, at every opportunity, throughout the world. And I pledge to you, as I look into this period of the sixties, that with a united American people we can continue to keep the peace; but, more than that, we can extend freedom without war. And I ask you, my friends: Aren't these issues that I have discussed bigger than my party or yours? Aren't these as big as America? I say, then: remember, as you vote on November the 8th, that you're not just voting for a man. You're not just voting for a party. You are deciding the future of America. Put America first, and we will all be the better for it.
Four days before November 8, Senator Kennedy has finally come to realize that the domestic oil industry has its problems. Yesterday in Wichita Falls, Tex., he announced that if elected he and his running mate would meet to discuss oil "and other Texas problems." This promise of action to come ranks in quality and substance with his promise to make a study of the oil and gas depletion allowance. It raises several questions (1) When Kennedy and Lyndon get together, will Chester Bowles and a copy of the Los Angeles platform be in the room? For their platform promises a hard look at "tax loopholes," which it says includes depletion allowances. And Mr. Bowles, who wrote that platform, is on record in opposition to the depletion allowance of 27½ percent for oil and gas. (2) Will Kennedy and Johnson discuss measures to cancel out the complete failure of the Congress, which their party has controlled since 1954, to do one single thing to help keep out the imports of foreign oil, which Mr. Kennedy now says have caused domestic oil production to slip? (3) Will they discuss means to keep the news of their discussion on oil out of Kennedy's native New England? (4) Will they crow over their cleverness in not holding their summit conference before November 8 ? The American people deserve answers to all these questions within 24 hours.
As has been his custom throughout this campaign, my opponent now says some more things about me. This time he tries to convince the people that I am against social security. He has continued his misrepresentation of my position time and again when he has told the Nation that I am opposed to medical care for the aged. His campaign from Labor Day forward has been marked by this type of distortion. Does he think the American people can be duped? Now, in a despicable and vicious manner, he tries to arouse the fears of our senior citizens by charging me with being the leader of the social security wrecking crew. I say this to our senior citizens The social security program would really be wrecked if my opponent's irresponsible spending programs were adopted. Why do I make this charge? I make it because my opponent's platform and campaign program are sure to damage seriously your social security benefits by sharply increasing the prices of everything you buy. Many of you know, from bitter personal experience, that when inflation is rampant and prices rise, your income never catches up. Many of you had that experience during the Truman administration. The result of the Truman inflation was the same as cutting social security benefits in half. A Kennedy-caused inflation could have the some result. Our administration is the best friend that social security and those who depend on it have ever had. We have provided the leadership that has broadened the laws to cover approximately 12 million more people, and we have increased the benefits. And what about the future? I am committed to a program that would, among other things, extend benefits to 2,600,000 senior citizens who are not now covered by any public retirement system. Mr. Kennedy has absolutely no program for these forgotten men and women. I am also committed to a program that would result in increased benefits for widows who are part of the social security system, and which would subject the entire benefit structure to periodic reviews to determine when upward adjustments should be made. If he has his way, my opponent will wreck the standard of living for all who depend on the social security system. For my part, I will provide the leadership and sympathetic interest which will strengthen and expand the social security system. There is your choice. I am confident as to your decision next Tuesday.
Thank you very much. My friends, Tom Kuchel, my fellow members of the Cabinet - incidentally, I think you ought to know who they are here. There is the Attorney General of the United States - Bill Rogers. Will you stand up, Bill? [Applause.] And Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare - Arthur Flemming. [Applause.] I want you to know that this great crowd here in Fresno is one that will remain in the hearts of Pat and me for all of our lives because this is the first stop in California on this last swing and, as I said out at the airport, we feel that we have come to the heart of California when we came to Fresno County. [Cheers and applause.] Incidentally, there has beer. a request you might pull down your signs so the people in back can hear and see a little better. Would you do that, please? And also I can see the crowd in the back - and, my, this crowd is bigger than I thought - way back there. Can you all hear back there? Fine. Now, I want to say, too, that coming to Fresno and seeing all these signs reminds me of the trips that Pat and I have made in previous years out through Sanger and Reedley and all the other towns that we couldn't get to this time - and we thank you for coming not only from there, but we understand from clear down Bakersfield way, from Modesto, Merced, and all the way around. This is really a central California meeting - and, believe me, it means we're on the way in the great Central Valley, and if we're on the way there it means California all the way on November 8 for our ticket. [Cheers and applause.] As you have noticed, I have acquired a little hoarseness in my voice since I was last here, and that's because - I think you will be interested to know - I have now traveled to 49 States of this Union. [Cheers and applause.] That's more States, of course, than you could have reached in either the '52 or '56 campaign. We didn't have that many then. On Sunday we go to Alaska. That will mean a campaign that will have taken us to 50 States of the Union, and I want you to know that there is no greater inspiration, no more fine experience that you can have than to go to the States of this Union, from Hawaii to Maine, from Florida to Minnesota, and then from California to New York, and see crowds like this, people who will come out, who will stand, all jammed together, as you are, and listen for a few moments to one of the candidates discuss the issues of the campaign. Let me tell you something. We've heard a lot these days about the things wrong with the United States. We're supposed to be second in education and second in science and second in space. We hear that our people have lost their sense of purpose. They're more interested in tailfins and deodorants than they are in the great national ideals of this country. Well, let me say this: I'm getting tired of hearing people run down the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, this isn't a perfect country, but it's the best country in the world. [Cheers and applause.] There are things wrong with our education, but - make no mistake about it - I've seen Soviet education and I've seen our own and we have the finest schools and our youngsters get the best education in the world and make no mistake about it, and we can be proud of that, too. [Cheers and applause.] And, while in the course of this campaign it is necessary for candidates to criticize those things that are wrong, let's not lose our sense of proportion. Let's remember that the American people are a people who throughout their history have stood for great ideals, and don't think the strength of idealism ever has run stronger than it is today, and I say that because I have never seen crowds larger than I have seen in every State that we have visited. What does this mean ? It means that you people care. It means that Democrats, Republicans and independents aren't just going to vote the way their party label may tell them. They aren't going to vote just the way their fathers and grandfathers did. They may, but they want to hear for themselves; they want to decide for themselves; and if you do that, it's going to be good for America, and the American people are all right, in my opinion. [Cheers and applause.] Now, there's a great tradition in the State of California, as you all know, a tradition which makes it very hard for other States to understand us, a tradition where we vote for the man rather than the party. Its always been the case out here. It's been the case in 1950; 48 years before that. We will find Republicans voting for Democrats and Democrats voting for Republicans, and people in the East and the West and the South throw up their hands and they say: What's the matter with the folks out there in California? Well, strangely enough, I find that that same attitude is developing all over the country today, and I know why. The reason is that the people of America realize that this year, 1960, the issues are so important - it is so essential that America elect the men who can best keep the peace; keep it without surrender, the men who can move America forward, and move her forward in the way that will be most effective for all of us - that they say we can't just vote according to party labels. We've got to think of what is best for America first, rather than party first, and that is what we ask you to do in this election campaign. [Cheers and applause.] Now, if you will think for just a moment with me, look to the future of America. What are the things that we think of and that we want? Well, I was thinking, as I looked at all these wonderful high school bands over here and as I was seeing Leo Carillo again introducing Tom Kuchel and Tom introducing me, of what had happened in the State of California alone from the time that Leo and his grandparents and the like, who are original Californians, came here, and even from the time my parents came here. Ours has had the most fabulous progress of any State in the Union, and I think the reason for that has been that the people who came to California were people that were never satisfied with things as they are. They came out here because they were on the go. They wanted a better life. They wanted to build a better life for their children than they had for themselves. I remember my father always used to say that to the five of us, the five boys in our family, when we were growing up. He never used to say: I want to go back to the good old days. And he never used to say: Look, you're pretty lucky to have it as good as you have it today. He always used to say in America we want a better life for our children than we have had for ourselves - and that's what we want, and that's what we're going to get, but we're going to get in, in my opinion, by building on the tremendous progress we have had under Dwight D. Eisenhower. [Cheers and applause.] Now, here's where you come to a fundamental choice. You see, my opponent says America has been standing still for the last 7½ years; hasn't moved of the dime, and now we've got to get her going again. Now, look here - look around Fresno County. You've had the most fantastic growth in the last 7½ years of any area in the country, and why did it happen? It happened because you had an administration in Washington which encouraged individuals to get out and make their contributions to progress in this county and in this State, and I say, my friends, we do not want to stop those policies, but we want to build on them and to see that we continue that growth rather than to stop it, and I think that, as I carne here on the 75th anniversary of Fresno, was the spirit of that city then. It's the spirit of this crowd here, and I call assure you that America knows that we have been moving forward and we do not want to go back to the policies we left when Dwight Eisenhower became President in 1953. [Cheers and applause.] That means, then, that we will move forward in education. We will move forward in health. We will move forward in our reclamation projects. We will move forward in the next 4 years, even more thin we have in the last 4. Why? Because we have a better start. Because we have a broader base on which to build. Because we have programs in all of these fields, programs that will move America forward, and move her in a, far more effective way than will our opponents. [Cheers and applause.] Why do I say that? I say that for this reason. You know, many times people ask me: "Mr. Nixon, why don't you go around and do what your opponent does? Why don't you just promise the people everything, promise that you will go around and if there is a problem, the Federal Government is going to solve it; if there is a problem, the Federal Government is going to spend some money?" I could do that - and let's get one thing straight right now. There's one thing we can agree upon. My opponent will spend $15 billion a year more than I would spend as President of the United States, but let me tell you something: It isn't his money, but yours he's going to spend. [Cheers and applause.] Now let me put it this way; It would be very easy for me, its a candidate, to come before an audience like this and say: "For every problem, you don't have to worry about a thing, I'm going to hand it in Washington. We're going to spend some money, I want to win this election." Why don't I say it? I'll tell you why. Because I know it isn't right. Because I know it would be the wrong thing for the American people. Because I know that it would rob, for example, our wage earners. Rob them how? If we spent $15 billion a year more paying off the promises that our opponents have offered in this campaign, it means that we raise prices and raise taxes for all of the American people. I ask you, those of you who shop in this shopping center: Do you want to have your prices increased? Can you take it? [Cries of "No!"] What about your budget? Let me ask you, particularly those of you who are older here, living on social security, living on pensions or planning to: Do you want the value of your dollars cut in half? That happened once. It happened in the 7 Truman years. My friends, we cannot let that happen now, and I'll tell you why we aren't going to let it happen. Because the American people aren't getting fooled. Let me put it this way: You know what my opponent's programs sound like? Remember the old days, they had the medicine man who came to town. [Laughter.] And, you know, he had a cure-all, a cure-all for everything. He'd say - It's the same thing, of course, in each bottle; just put a different label on it, but he'd pass it out, and, you know, it would work pretty well. He'd take the people's money and give them that cure-all, for any aches or pains, pneumonia, or chilblains, anything they might have, and he got away with it for a while, but pretty soon he had to get out of town before the people found out these remedies didn't work. And that's exactly what the situation is here. The American people are being offered a cure-all. It will cost them $15 billion a year. It will increase their taxes. It will increase their prices. It will poison their economy. Therefore, it's the kind of cure-all which certainly they don't want, and they don't want to buy, and it will be bad for them. But in this instance, let me say this: It isn't going to work, and I'll tell you why. Because, you see, Mr. Kennedy started a little too soon. He started a little to soon, and the people have caught up with it and before he gets out of town, they're going to vote, and they're going to vote him down, on November the 8th. [Cheers and applause.] So, in this field, I say the way to progress - the way to progress is the way we offer. It's an honest way. It's a way where we say: Yes, the Federal Government has responsibilities in reclamation, in education, in health for the aged, in social security, but, no, we do not go along with the kind of a program where we promise everything to everybody and then say: "You pay the bill." We say that every dollar should be spent in Washington that needs to be spent; but that not one dollar of your money will be spent that we don't need, because you need it back here more than we need it there. That's what you need. [Cheers and applause.] Now one other point I will mention: We think also of the future of our children and of ourselves in another sense. This is the most important issue of all. It's the issue of whether we're going to be around to enjoy our social security, our good wages, our housing, all these other things we want. My friends, there is no question but that the next President will carry the greatest load on his shoulders of responsibility of any President in history, even greater than Lincoln or Eisenhower or Wilson or Roosevelt, the war Presidents. I say that because now the struggle for the world is reaching a great climax, and it will take leadership, leadership that will be very wise, leadership that must be firm, leadership that must be experienced, to avoid war on the one side, or surrender on the other for America and the free world. I know this. I know it because I have seen the world. I have been to 55 countries. I have seen these great forces of slavery headed by communism on the one side clash with freedom headed by our Nation and our allies on the other. I have seen it in the Soviet Union. I have had Mr. Khrushchev shake his fist right under my chin and say: "We're going to beat you." He said: "We've got more missiles than you have." He said: "We're going to beat you because we're going to overtake you economically. Our system is better." He believes this. He's going to work for it. He's fanatical and ruthless. So I say to you today - and I'm not indicating to you on this score what my qualifications are: I will only say - that I know that in making your decision, remember that man you select will make decisions that will determine the life of this world, not just America. So, what do we do about it in that respect? I think, first, we have got to look at the two men on our side and the two on the other side. Cabot Lodge and I both know the problem. For 7½ years we have worked with and understand the President. For 7½ years we have participated in the great decisions, and we both know Mr. Khrushchev. I think I can honestly say and objectively say that we have not been taken in by him, and I don't think we ever will be, because we know the kind of a man he is. As far as my opponent is concerned, you have heard him talk and you will recall in this very campaign on three crucial issues, he disagreed with the President. He criticized the President. He disagreed with him on Quemoy and Matsu. He said that the President made a mistake, in effect, in not following his and the advice of a few other Senators, a minority, fortunately, who said that we should draw a line, as we did on Korea, and say to the Communists: "Come and get these little islands of freedom," with the assumption if they came and got them, there would be peace and no war. But the President refused, because he knew that would lead to war, and the President was right, and he was wrong. And then again at the summit conference, you recall the President refusing to apologize to Khrushchev for defending this country through the U-2 flights from surprise attack, Senator Kennedy suggesting that he could have apologized. Again Senator Kennedy was wrong, and the President was right, because no President can ever apologize for defending this country against surprise attack. [Cheers and applause.] And then on Cuba, the third point, you recall our fourth debate, Senator Kennedy saying we weren't doing enough with regard to Cuba, overlooking the fact that he was advocating a policy of direct Federal Government aid to rebel forces in Cuba which would have invited the Communists in, which would have resulted in a war that would have decimated that land and probably set off a world war. Here again he was wrong. The President was right. And on all three of these issues he changed his mind, I admit, but remember: When you're President, you don't get a second chance. I remember the time the President went into Lebanon, for example. I remember the 10 great decisions he made during the course of this administration in which, if they had been wrong it might have meant war or surrender, but on the day he went into Lebanon, he paced the floor - it was early Monday morning - and finally he turned and said: "We'll go in." He knew that it risked war, to send our people in there, but he knew that we were certain to have war or surrender if we didn't stop the Communists there. My friends, if these same mistakes had been made by a man who was President, it would leave been disastrous for us, for the free world - and I say tonight to you here - I say, that the United States, the people of thus country, cannot afford to use the White House as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Do I tell you, then, that if we're elected there are no problems in the world? No. There are going to be problems. But I do say this: I do say that, as I stand here, I have confidence, that America is strong enough in its will, that we have the productive capacity, that we have the spirit, which will enable us to meet our destiny in this critical period. I feel this. It's a question of faith. It's a question which I leave answered on the basis of what I have seen abroad and on the basis of what I have seen in America, and I can only say to you that if the people of this State again give me their support, as they have in the past, that I will, of course, try, as I always leave, to serve you; but, above everything else, I will remember that the greatest responsibility that I have is to people like yourselves, people who have this country's interest deep in your hearts, people who are trying not only to make America a better place in which to live, but people who care about the problems of other people around the world. It is this spirit, this spirit that we have, this idealism, which is inherent in the American character, that will make this great age of the sixties, the greatest in our history. And I ,want you to know, inspired by your presence, inspired by your support, I just hope that we will never let you down; and I assure you that we will not. Thank you.
 Good evening. I first want to tell all of you who are listening to this program and viewing it how much I appreciate your giving me some of your precious television time. I say that advisedly. I recall when I was home a couple of Sundays ago my younger daughter, Julie, who is 12 years old, said she was going to be awfully glad when this campaign was over; and I asked her why. She said: "Well, I'll be glad when we can get back to some our our favorite programs which these political programs take the place of." So, I suppose those of us who are candidates don't realize that we are on so much that you who view us may be getting a little tired of hearing about the issues. On the other hand, you do realize, and I think most of the American people realize - that the decision you make on November the 8th, next Tuesday; will be one of the most important decisions you will ever make in your life. That's why you're listening tonight, and that's why I want to talk to you tonight differently from the way you usually hear political speeches made. I have traveled already in 40 States, and I am coming into California, here in Fresno, in the heart of California, for my last tour of California before election day on Tuesday. In these travels I live spoken literally, I suppose, to hundreds of thousands of people and to millions by television, usually at great rallies, where, I tell them what I believe in and the things I want to do. My opponent does the same thing, of course. He talks to great numbers of people at rallies that are sponsored for him. And then we had the television debates, which I am sure many of you have seen. It has occurred to me, however, that these rallies and debates have lacked something which you might like. In all of these instances we've been telling you what we wait, what we want to do for the country, what we believe that you want, and what I would like to do tonight is to discuss the issues exactly in the reverse manner. I would like to discuss the problems confronting the United States in the terms of what you, the people of the United States, want, you, the families of America, of California, those listening to me on this station tonight. Incidentally, I do want to say to those down in Fresno and as well in Bakersfield how much I appreciated your coming to our meetings here in Fresno, and I regret that I couldn't get to Bakersfield and that we had to cancel our meeting there. I only hope that at some later time, perhaps after the campaign is over, I can visit Bakersfield again. Our schedule just wouldn't permit our reaching there at this occasion. But, getting back to the issues before us, I suggest that we consider them tonight in terms of what you want from your Government in Washington, D.C. I think the first thing that everybody would say he wanted from the Government in Washington could be summed up in one word, the word "progress." We Americans are a go-ahead people. We're never satisfied with things as they are. That's why we're a great people. That's why, as a matter of fact, California is one of the greatest States, because our people have always been progressive. We wanted to move forward. And, so, I am sure that every one of you listening would like to judge the two candidates. You'd like to see how we measure up in terms of progress for America, progress for you, and that means: How do we measure up in terms of providing better education, better housing, better jobs, better security, better medical care for the people of the United States? Now on this score you have somewhat of a problem, I am sure, in choosing between the candidates because, obviously, we both have programs to deal with these problems, and we believe that our programs are the best programs. I say that mine are and my opponent, I know, says that his are. And, also, you have difficulty, I am sure, in judging which one of us to believe, because he says, for example, that over the last 7½ years, the Eisenhower years, America has been standing still, that we haven't moved ahead and that one of the reasons for voting for him is to get America going again. I say that isn't true. I say that in the last 7½ years we have been moving forward and that what we should do is not to discard those policies, but to build on them, to improve them. And, so, that's the question you have to decide. Do you want to turn away from those policies, discard them, and go back to the policies we left 7½ years ago, which is in effect what my opponent is advocating, or do you want to go forward, building on the policies of these 7½ years? Well, before you can answer that question, you have to determine who is right. Have we been standing still or haven't we? And you know the answer to that question is one that you don't have to depend on either me or my opponent, because you know. Look around you. Look around your communities. Look at the new schools, the new shopping centers, the new highways. You will find what the truth is, and the truth is that we have had the greatest progress in the past 7½ years in this country that we have ever had in America. We built, for example, three times as many classrooms in the 7½ Eisenhower years as in the 7½ years of Mr. Truman which preceded them, and we can make the same comparisons in terms of building of hospitals, of highways. But, getting to the key one, let's take the wage earner. We find that in the Eisenhower years wages have gone up and that real purchasing power for the wage earner has increased by a net 15 percent. That means that the purchasing power of the wage earner is 15 percent more now than it was in 1953. What was the situation before? Well, wages went up all right during the Truman administration, but you recall, those of you who were wage earners at that time, that you didn't get any benefit out of it. You didn't get any benefit because prices went up just as much, and because we have held prices in check this means that you have had real increases in wages in our administration. So, I say that they can't make the charge stand up that we have been standing still. America has had great progress, and I believe that most Americans recognize this and they want to build on that progress. They don't want to cast it aside - cast it aside and return to the policies of the past. However, one question has been raised in the final days of this campaign, raised, in my opinion, in terms of a scare tactic, a frantic endeavor on the part of our opponents to scare the people into voting for them, which I think should be commented upon right in this television program. I noted, for example, when I was in Detroit a few days ago the first evidence of this tactic. I have it here in front of me, a copy of the Detroit Free Press. I think that our television camera over here can pick it up. You see this headline? It says: "U.S. Facing Slump, Kennedy Declares." Now he has been making this statement since then, every day. If you picked up your papers this morning, or if you pick them up tomorrow morning, you will see some comments to the effect that we are facing a slump - and, so, that must cause you concern. If we are facing a slump, then we will assume that there's something wrong with our present policies and we had better have a change. Are we facing a slump? And I tell you we're not. I point to the fact that we have had a greater increase in employment last month than is usually the case seasonally and a decrease in unemployment which is greater than usual. I also point to something else. Let me just show you something in this paper - same paper, but a different headline. Look at the top over here: "Ten-day Auto Sales Set Record." Now what does that mean? If the people of the United States are buying more new cars than ever before, that means they have faith in the future. That means that they believe we are not going to have a slump - and we won't have one, because you know what causes a recession? What causes it is when people lose confidence, when they quit buying. And so, say somebody's wrong here. Either Senator Kennedy is wrong or the American people are wrong, and I think the people are right. The people have confidence in our economy. They're buying more. They're saving more. They're spending more than ever before. We're not going to have a recession. Were not going to allow ourselves to be talked into one, and I can assure you that under our administration we will move forward, move forward to even greater heights than we have reached during the past 7½ years. So, now, let's look at the programs that are offered for moving America forward. We have my programs. We have my opponent's. There's one difference between them that is very significant. His cost a great deal more - $15 billion a year more he would add to the Federal budget. Now that's quite a bit of money, but let's understand what it would really mean. This $15 billion a year isn't something that's impersonal. This isn't so-called Government money or Federal money. This is your money. Oh, I know I have heard the claims made - and you have heard them made - that this money is going to be spent and that we can enact the programs and pay for the promises that our opponents have been making in this campaign and that we aren't going to have to raise taxes and that we're still going to be able to balance the budget; but, my friends, you know better than that. Money doesn't grow on trees. You cannot add $15 billion worth of Federal Government spending to the budget and not raise taxes or have deficit spending - and that means raising prices. You can't do it, in other words, unless you give up part of the program. And, so, I say that the American people are not dumb. They aren't going to be taken in by this medicine man tactic of saying: The solution for every problem is: Spend some more money, some more Federal money, and take away the responsibility from the individuals and the States, which has been a major factor in creating the tremendous progress that is America's today. I say that the American people are going to think twice before they change the course of the direction of this Government, change it by greatly expanding Federal spending, by greatly expanding Federal intervention in our economy and by discouraging the very factor that creates wealth, which has resulted in the progress that we've had, and that's individual enterprise, investment in the economy, in the future of America. I think there's another reason that the American people do not want this kind of program, why they're not going to be taken in by a man who goes all over the country promising a solution for every problem in terms solely of what the Federal Government will spend and how much more it will spend. I think that the American people realize how cruel this kind of policy can be. I referred a moment ago to what happened to our money during the course of the Truman administration. That was terribly difficult for people who were wage earners, but they didn't have it nearly as hard as those on social security, on pensions and life insurance. You remember what happened? You had a fixed income, and your income was cut in half because the value of the dollar went down 50 cents in that 7½-year period. That was the cruel thing to do. It was the kind of program that virtually wrecks social security. And just let me stay something on that score. I've been rather amused about the comments that have been made during the course of this campaign, some of them that have been made with regard to what I am supposed to have been for and against, but one that has not amused me has been the charge that I and my party oppose the social security program and that I led a wrecking crew for the purpose of wrecking it. My friends, look at the record. We have added 10 million people to social security during the Eisenhower years. We had the greatest increase of benefits to social security in those 7 years of any administration since the program began, and I have a program that will extend social security to 2 million not presently covered. My opponent has no program for extending it in this direction. So, I say to you the record shows who is a friend of social security. The record shows that the charges about wrecking it, incidentally, should apply not to me but to my opponent. And I ask all of you - and that's most Americans - who do have social security, - and this means that those of you who are saving for your future - I ask you: Don't you believe that your Government owes you the responsibility of not spending more than it takes in so that the money you save and put in social security or pensions today will buy as much as it took you to earn it today? I'm going to make one pledge, one pledge that I believe any candidate for the Presidency owes to the people to make, and that is that we must never let happen again what happened in the Truman years. We can't break faith with the people who save their money and then come to retirement and find that the money they earned won't buy what they planned that it would be able to buy at that time. And, so, in this field of Government spending it's a very real problem. What do I think ought to be done about it? Well, my friends, the Federal Government has many responsibilities, responsibilities in the field of defense, responsibilities in the field of education, responsibilities in the field of reclamation, which we understand so well and which we support so enthusiastically here in California and in the Western States. But let us remember, too, that a President of the United States has a responsibility to all the people of this country, and that is to see that every dollar is spent that is needed and that is necessary to see that progress occurs in this country, but that not one dollar is spent for political purposes, for the purpose of buying votes, in effect, with the peoples' money, that not one dollar is sent that could be better spent by the people, themselves, because this applies to everybody. Let's take our farmers for just a moment. One of the major problems in this very knotty farm problem is the cost-price squeeze. Many farmers who have spoken to me in the Midwest and in California have said, as their income may go up or down, the difficulty is that the prices of the things they buy seem to go up faster than the prices of the things they sell - and thus is exactly what would happen if my opponent's program were enacted, because with this tremendous increase in Federal spending the prices of what everybody buys would go up, and that would include the prices of what our farmers buy. So, on this particular issue I say that the very fact that I stand against this wasting of the people's money, that I stand against programs that will not produce progress, but would only produce more spending, indicates an interest in and a concern for your problems - and I pledge to you that I will always have that concern in the years ahead. Now, if I could turn to one other issue, an issue of tremendous importance, an issue of overriding importance, I should say, in this campaign and for the whole world, what could be more important than a job? What could be more important than adequate security and adequate pension? What could be more important than good medical care, all of these things which I stand for and for which I have programs that I believe are far superior to my opponent's: Well, being around to enjoy our good life in this country is more important than that. I have traveled a great deal, as you know perhaps, in the last 7½ years. It's been a great privilege to see the world, to visit both sides of the Iron Curtain and to visit the countries of Asia and Africa arid Latin America and Europe - 55 in all. During travels I have seen what war can do when it comes to a country. Now, we have suffered from war - World War I, World War II, and Korea. American boys have died, given their lives by the thousands, for the cause of freedom and peace; but we have never suffered from war that has been brought to America. I have seen places like Tokyo and Berlin, northern Italy; areas that did receive real damage, damage from war that was brought to the country, itself but that damage was absolutely nothing compared to the damage that will come to all the world, including the United States, if we allow world war III, because we know that in world war III the United States cannot be immune from attack. We know, for example, that it takes just one nuclear bomb to knock out a city like New York or Los Angeles or San Francisco. So the major responsibility of the next President of the United States; above everything else, will be to keep the peace for America, keep the peace without, surrender of principle br territory. Now, here again the people of this country, the people of California, have a major decision to make. You must decide between me and my opponent. The question between its, of course, is not who is for peace or who is against communism, We both feel the same way on that issue. The question is: Who has the qualifications? Who can give the leadership that the Nation needs? I am not going to be so presumptuous as to tell you if I am elected there aren't going to be any problems in the world, that the Russians and the Communists are going to start acting much better than they are at the present time, that they aren't going to continue to attempt to give us trouble around the world, that they aren't going to continue their attempts to take over the world by any means, if necessary. I will, however, tell you this: That I have had certain experience that I think is worth considering. For 7½ years my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I have been in the Cabinet and in the Security Council. We have sat with the President as he has made great decisions involving war and peace for America and for the world. For 7½ years we have been through, in other words, the fire of decision - and you learn something as you see these decisions made. Also, both of us have had the experience of meeting Mr. Khrushchev. We've sat opposite him at the conference table. I have had him shake his fist right under my chin and tell me that he and his country were going to catch the United States, that they were going to catch us and pass us economically, that they were going to defeat us in the struggle for the world and that they were going to do it without war. I know, too, what his designs are, I believe. I also know what I think we have to do if we are going to stop him without war and if we are going to build a world in which all men can be free, including the men and the women behind the Iron Curtain. As far as my opponent is concerned, I can only point to his record in this campaign. The American people have heard him disagree sharply with the President's policy on three basic issues First, we heard him in the case of Quemoy and Matsu during the course of our television debates indicate that in 1955 he would have drawn a line, drawn a line excluding these two islands of freedom off the China coast from the area that would be defended by the President of the United States in his discretion in the event he thought it was necessary to defend Formosa, our ally. He said that by doing this he thought this would contribute to peace. The President thought he was wrong, and the Senate sustained the President overwhelmingly, with a majority of my opponent's own party voting with the President rather than with him. The President was right. He was wrong, and the proof of it is that we have kept the peace in the Formosa Straits - kept it because when you deal with a dictator, surrendering territory to him, does not satisfy him. It only invites him in. It only encourages him to ask for more. Why do I say that? Because that's what happened with Hitler. Why do I say that? Because that is what happened with the Korean war. You remember? Secretary Acheson in January of 1950 drew a line excluding Korea from our defense zone, and I suppose many Americans said: Well, this is good. We won't have a war about Korea. But 140,000 American boys learned differently, and President Eisenhower stopped that war, and he didn't make that same mistake in regard to Quemoy and Matsu, and I can assure you that I will never make that mistake, because I know the Communists. I know that they do not want just Quemoy and Matsu. They don't want just Formosa. They want the world. The moment you make a concession without getting one in return you do not serve the cause of peace with them. You only serve the cause of war or surrender, because it stimulates them and encourages them to demand more and more and more, and eventually that leads to war. The second error that I think my opponent made was when he criticized the President's conduct at the Paris Conference. Let me recall the facts. You remember Mr. Khrushchev demanded that the President apologize or express regrets to him for the U-2 flights which the President had ordered in order to get intelligence information with regard to Soviet preparations for surprise attack against the United States and the free world. Now, why couldn't the President express regrets? He couldn't because no President can express regrets for attempting to defend the security of the United States of America, and here again my opponent said he could have; I thin he was wrong. I think the President was right. The third instance was in our fourth debate. I am sure many of you who are listening tonight or viewing this program saw that debate, and you recall there that I and my opponent had a sharp disagreement. I stood with the President's program with regard to Cuba. I said the program should be one of containing Castro, containing him economically and politically, containing him in this way by a quarantine program, in effect. My opponent indicated that this was too little and too late, and he said he advocated a program where the U.S. Government would aid the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba. Now, that sounded pretty good, because everybody would assume, when they heard that: Well, Mr. Kennedy must be against Castro. But the trouble with that was that was shooting from the hip, and it was dead wrong because it would have violated five treaties we have with the Latin American countries. It would have violated article 1 and article 2 of the United Nations Charter. It would have lost us friends around the world. It was such a mistake that Mr. Kennedy had to retract the statement or at least explain it, and explain it away, a couple of days later. But that brings me to the key point: He's changed his mind on all three of these subjects. He indicates now on Quemoy and Matsu he supports the President. He indicates now he didn't really intend to suggest that the President could have apologized, that he supported what the President did at the Paris Conference, and he says that as far as Cuba is concerned he meant all along that only he thought that we should give moral support to the cause of freedom - and that, of course, is what we have been doing all along. But, my friends, let me tell you one thing: A candidate can make a mistake and then take it back the next day and the country is no worse for it; but a President can't. I have been in the Office of the President when he's made great decisions. I remember the day we went into Lebanon. It was a Monday morning. The President paced the oval room of the White House, finally reached his conclusion. He turned and he said: Well, we have to go in. He knew that sending our troops into Lebanon was a risk, a risk of war, but he knew that if we didn't stop them there that there was a graver risk of war, almost a certainty, as the Communists moved their influence down through the Middle East. But if the President had been wrong then he couldn't have called back his decision or his words. And I say in this instance we have three indications from my opponent, when the chips were down, in the course of this campaign, would have made the wrong decision - and I ask you: Can we use the White House, in effect, as a training school where a man gets experience at the expense of the American people? I do not suggest to you that if I am elected I will not make mistakes. I do only say however, that I know what these problems are. I do say that, having been through the fire of decision, as I described it, I do believe that in these years ahead I can avoid some of the mistakes that might come from rashness, from shooting from the hip, from impulsiveness. My friends, the most. important responsibility of the next President will be to keep the peace, and we will not be able to keep the peace unless we have a President who, in addition to wanting to do it, will have the experience, the judgment, the background, the calmness in a crisis that President Eisenhower has displayed in such great magnitude. I do not suggest that I can equal him, but I do pledge to you that, with your support, I will give to this Nation every bit of the effort that is within me to work in the cause of peace and freedom. Finally, may I give this personal note to my friends here in California: I believe the issues in this campaign are so important that Californians, along with the rest of Americans, must think not of party first, but of country first. This is not a question of whose party label I wear or you wear, or my opponent wears. It's a question of what leadership America needs, and I say that: If you believe that the leadership that Cabot Lodge and I can provide is the leadership that America needs, then and only then do I ask for your support. If you do believe that, then I ask you: Go out and work for us, work for us recognizing that you will be working not just for a man and not just for a party, but for what is best for America - and that is best for you. Thank you, and good night.
As this campaign draws to a close, my opponent is relying principally on one theme He wants the Federal Government to spend about 15 billion more dollars a year for all kinds of new Federal programs. He claims he can work it out so that the money can be spent without increasing your taxes or the Government going further in debt. Then he glibly promises that your wages will be higher and that the prices you pay for food, rent, and clothing will not be. The truth is that his promises represent the cruelest hoax any politician has ever tried to foist on the American people. The programs and policies he advocates obviously would mean a much larger centralized government in Washington than anyone before this campaign has ever dared to recommend. What would his programs do to America? They would destroy the stability of our economic system. What would this mean to Americans? It would mean  (1) Every worker's take-home pay would be drastically cut - by more taxes, by inflation - or both. (2) The price of food and clothing would go up. (3) All Americans would have to pay more taxes - especially the middle and lower income families. His giveaway program to win this election really is a "takeaway from the poor people" program. It is a program to buy his election with your money and your future. In the old days, the medicine man could sell a lot of his medicine by promising that it would cure all the ailments of all the people in a community. But he had to get out of town pretty fast because the word soon got around that the whole thing was a hoax. At first, the political medicine my opponent offered to cure everything sold pretty well. The mistake he made was that he started peddling it too soon. About a week ago it began to dawn on people that what he was offering was not a cure for anything, but actually was a slow but sure poison which would destroy the very economic health of our Nation. Whether the polls have caught up with it or not, the public has caught up with him. It is my firm belief that the election results on Tuesday will show, that like the medicine man in the old days, he didn't get out of town soon enough.
Thank you very much. This is certainly a very great welcome as we arrive here on our last western swing of the campaign, and I can only tell you, as I see this packed coliseum here in the heart of the inland empire, that this can mean only that we are on the way to a great victory in the State of Washington. I mean not only victory for our team at the national level, our candidates for President and Vice President, but also for the reelection of your Congressman Walt Horan in this district, of Catherine May in the next district and for the new Governor of the State of Washington, a great governor, Lloyd Andrews. For those in our television audience and for those in this hall who wondered why we had two introductions, I want you to know that was my fault. We were a little late arriving at the airport due to some technical difficulties getting off at our last stop, Casper, Wyo. As a result, we arrived at different times in the hall here. But I want to say this: I don't know when I enjoyed being introduced twice, more than I did today right here in this great city. As we enter the last days of this campaign, of course, the issues that will decide it are becoming clearer and clearer. It seems that in this campaign it has taken more time than usual for those issues to get home to the American people. But you know that our people, while they sometimes will come rather late to a realization of what they are deciding in a political campaign, generally reach conclusions and make very, very good conclusions in the end, before the campaign reaches the voting stage. Today, as I bring this campaign to the great Northwest, I welcome the opportunity before this tremendous audience and before this audience on television and radio, to delineate, to sell out the issues - the choice that you will have on November 8, a choice which I think is one that must be made not on the basis of whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, not on the basis of how your father or your grandfather voted, or how somebody else tells you to vote, but on one test only. I say, my friends, that the need for leadership in America and the world is such, today, that America and the American people must make the decision on the basis of which of the two candidates for the Presidency and which of the two candidates for the Vice Presidency can best provide the leadership which will serve America and the cause of peace without surrender in the world. I say that because this, I find, is the mood of the country. I have now been in 49 States, more States than have ever been visited by a presidential candidate. As you know, I will go to Alaska which will make 50 States since this convention and I want you to know that in every State in which I go I find the same mood. I find people not thinking in terms of simply voting a party label. I find people looking at the candidates and listening to what they have to say, sometimes waiting to make up their minds, because the people realize that this decision is such an important one. Therefore, let me now indicate to you the roads that I think America has offered to it, in this particular phase of the campaign. Let me indicate to you the choice you will make when you cast your votes on November the 8th. First, basically, what we have to recognize is that for the last 7½ years Cabot Lodge and I have been part of the present administration. I'm proud of the record of that administration. I'm proud of the President of the United States and the leadership he has given to this country. I believe that we should take that record and not stand on it, but build on it. I believe that we can take that record and, from the base which it has provided, build a better America at home, and that we can build a new world abroad. I think this is possible. I believe that my colleague and I have had some experience that is worth considering - experience which enables us to tell the American people: We will follow President Eisenhower but we will go forward from this position, go forward in the way that the great progressive American people always want to go. That is one choice, and then there is another choice. There is the choice that is offered by our opponents. They say that this record is one on which we should not build. They say that this record is one that has been disastrous for the American people. To quote them exactly, in the field of foreign policy, they say that the 7½ Eisenhower years have been - and I quote - years of "defeat and retreat and stagnation." They say at home that as far as the Eisenhower years are concerned, they have been - and I again quote - years of "standing still" for America. My friends, if those two charges are true, I do not deserve - my colleague does not deserve, Walt Horan, Catherine May do not deserve - your support; but if those two charges are not true, then we believe we do deserve your support. And now let's look at the charges. One: Has America been standing still? Do we have to get her going again. Well, the answer, my friends, is not to listen to me, not to listen to my opponent, but to listen to your own commonsense and look around you at the development in the State of Washington - look around you at the development in this community. America has had the greatest progress in the last 7½ years of any period in our history - and we're proud of that progress. Have this in mind. Education: Three times as many classrooms built in this administration as in the previous administration. Health: We have found a greater improvement in medical care in this administration than in any administration in history - more hospitals built, for example, than in any period before. Highways: The greatest highway program in history. Wages: We find the greatest increase in real wages in this last period of any increase in history, and we remember that in the previous 7 years of the Truman administration there was no increase in the real wages of Americans. Why? Because inflation ate up every bit of the increase. What do we find, then, in other fields? We find that in addition we have had progress in the kind of fields in which we, in the Pacific Northwest, and the Far West are particularly interested. I refer, for example, to reclamation; and with the Secretary of the Interior sitting right here on the stage - Fred Seaton, a man who has given tremendous leadership to his country and to this administration - I am glad to nail one of the worst fabrications, falsehoods, lies that you can name in this campaign, and that is that this administration has been a period of standing still in reclamation. I tell you, my friends, that is the exact opposite of the truth. We have had more progress in reclamation in this administration than in any administration in history - and we're proud of it. You say, prove it. You know, you hear about new starts and we've had new starts - 30 percent more during the Eisenhower years than in the previous 7 years. What about the future? A program of development which will be greater than any in the history of our country. Where do the candidates stand on it? Well, my friends, look at my record. Compare it with my opponent's. He has opposed these projects because he came, of course, from New England. Now he's changed his mind. But I'm not a Johnny-come-lately on this. I have been for these projects, and I think that you can be sure that we will move forward in reclamation under our leadership. So the charge that America has been standing still simply doesn't stand up. Let's look at the period as far as foreign policy is concerned. Retreat and defeat and stagnation for America? Why, my friends, those adjectives are all right. The only trouble is that Mr. Kennedy's applying them to the wrong administration. He was thinking of Harry Truman's administration. You remember when I was here. You remember that right here in Spokane, when I spoke out in the outdoor meeting, I pointed to the record of the 7 Truman years. Do you recall ? Six hundred million people went behind the Iron Curtain during those years. Do you recall the policies that led to the war in Korea? Because of foolishness in the State Department, because an American Secretary of State did what Mr. Kennedy would do today - draw a line and say to the Communists, "come and get it," draw a line in the name of peace, but draw it and invite war. My friends, we had enough of that kind of foolishness in 1953. And I say we don't want any part of it in 1980. But now you have the choice. You have the choice and I ask you to consider it - consider it in your own minds, and consider it on the basis of the records. If you believe the charge that we have been standing still; if you believe the charge that our foreign policy has failed, then your choice is clear. But my friends, if you know the truth - and the truth is that we have been moving forward - if you know the truth, that under this administration we have given the United States peace, ended one war, and kept out of other wars, if you like what you've had, and if you want leadership that till build on it, then that is what we offer, and that is what we will give you, if you give us the opportunity on November the 8th. But let us move from here. Where do we go? What kind of a future does America face? What kind of future does the world face? At home, my friends, we can have the greatest progress that the world has ever known - even greater than we've had in the last 8 years, greater because we have a bigger base on which to build, greeter because we have within our people and within ourselves the ability to move forward; but, my friends, we want to move forward by relying on what is the real motive power for growth in this country. Let me put it this way: You've heard a lot about new frontiers in this campaign. Believe me, all Americans want to cross new frontiers. That's the spirit that made America great - that's the spirit that developed the West. But, my friends, if we've going to develop new frontiers, if we're going to move across them, we can't move across them in an old jalopy with a new paint job, I can assure you of that. New frontiers! How has the West developed? It was not developed by a group of Americans saying we're weak, that we can't take care of our own problems, that we're going to send all the problems to the Government. Government didn't develop the West. It helped, but how? It helped by allowing and inspiring individuals, and it was the individual pioneer spirit that developed the West and developed America - and that's what we need in the United States today, if were going to develop the new frontiers. So, in these fields, in the field of education, in the field of housing, in the field of health, in the field of better jobs for more Americans and higher wages, we offer progress - but progress in which the Federal Government, recognizing its responsibility, does not take responsibility from individuals, but encourages maximum participation by individuals and by the States where they can do the job. What is the other choice? Well, the other choice is one that you've been hearing a great deal about. It's one that sounded very good for a while. It's one, however, where the very wise American people finally caught up with what the truth was. You recall it started with this kind of reasoning: One: We were standing still; Two: We have to get going again ; Three: There are some new frontiers; Four: I will lead you over these new frontiers. But, there was a catch - and the catch was that in order to lead you, you've got to give me your money - only $15 billion of it - but $15 billion of your money, I've got to have. Now, with this $15 billion - and that is what the programs of my opponent's platform - that is what his promises - will cost at a minimum, in my opinion; $15 billion, because he's even added to the platform by promises since then - $15 billion a year more spent by Government in Washington. For what? In the name of progress. Will it produce progress? The answer is: "No." The answer is "No," because it fails to take advantage of, and fails to use, what I indicated a moment ago was the real basis for progress - and that is the creative genius of 180 million free individual Americans. It puts the emphasis on what the Government does. But let's go further. Here's this $15 billion, and my opponent goes on to say to the American people through these past few weeks: "I will give you this progress by sending this money." But then he says: I'm against raising taxes.' And then he says: "I'm for balancing the budget, and against deficit spending." So, what's this package that is offered? "I'm going to give you programs that will cost $15 billion, but I'm not going to raise your taxes, and I'm not ping to unbalance the budget." This is the best medicine-man show that ever came to town. But my friends, you remember those old medicine men who used to come to town? They used to come in and, boy, they really sold that medicine for a while. It would cure anything, cure anything you imagined - snake bite, bronchitis, pneumonia, anything you wanted - same medicine; just a different label every time. And the medicine man got away with it for awhile, but finally the truth began to catch up with him. The truth began to catch up, as the people found out that what he was selling didn't cure. In some instances it was a deadly poison and believe me, that's exactly what my opponent's program is. It won't cure. It's a poison to the economic system of America. Now, why do I say it's a poison? My friends, do you know what paying for the promises that have been offered in this campaign would do to you, to the housewives who try to balance the family budget, to the retired people - people living on pensions and social security! You know what it would do to you? Go back to the 7 Truman years. We forget so quickly, but you'll remember this. I remember what happened. I remember, and you remember. People who lived on pensions and social security were driven to the wall, because their Government broke faith with them and cut the value of the dollar in half. You remember what happened to your wages. Wages went up in those 7 years, but did it help you? No, because prices went up 50 percent - they ate up everything. My friends, this is what we have here. You cannot spend $15 billion a year more paying for the promises my opponent has made - you cannot do that and balance the budget; and you cannot do it without raising taxes. You can't do those three things at the same time. Anybody who says you can is an economic ignoramus, and there's no question about it. What does it mean, then? It means that these promises, which sound so good, mean higher taxes and higher prices for the American people. Now, if this means progress, that would be one thing; but here's the catch - it does not mean progress. It will stifle individual initiative. It will stifle that kind of new invention and new investment which creates more jobs for America if that kind of program were put into effect. It would result, in my opinion, in the very kind of economic downturn and recession that my opponent so glibly and irresponsibly has predicted. Let me say this: There will be no recession if we are elected because our programs are built on a sound foundation; but there could be if they are, because their programs will discourage the faith that Americans have in their own economic system. It's just as simple as that. So, those are the two roads to the future. I think it's pretty clear which road you want to take. Build but build on a sound basis. Build on the basis where the Government spends every dollar that is necessary for progress in this country, but build on the basis where the Government, in spending that money, still recognizes that you must never break faith with the people - still recognizes that the cruelest hoax of all, the cruelest thing you can do to people, is to take their money and destroy any value of what they earn, what they save, what they have saved for their old age, for their security. I promise you - all of you who are saving for pensions, all of you who are saving for social security - I promise you that never again will the Government of the United States break faith with you, and that when you earn a dollar today you will be able to get a dollar's worth tomorrow or 5 years or 10 years from now when you retire - and you want that certainty for your future. Now, let us talk about the other roads that they offer, the roads in the field of foreign policy. Here we find another choice, our opponents again saying that our policies have been policies of defeat and retreat, and we saying and pointing to the record of what we have done. My friends, what do they offer? You know what we will do. We have been part of this administration. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We both, I think, have proved that we can handle him and not be fooled by him, and that means something in today's world, I can assure you. What is your choice on the other side? Your choice on the other side is a man who three times in the course of this campaign has disagreed with the President. Three times he's shot from the hip, rashly and impulsively, and three times if he had been President he would have made errors that would have been disastrous to America, and the cause of freedom and peace The first one was on Quemoy and Matsu - you remember that one - drawing the line, and that would have invited Communist attack, the very same thing that brought on the Korean war. The President was right. He was wrong. The second one was with regard to the President's conduct at the Paris conference. You recall what he said then. He said the President could have apologized, could have expressed regrets to Khrushchev for the U-2 flights. He was wrong. The President was right, right because no President can ever apologize for defending the security of the United States against surprise attack. And then, my friends, the third point you will recall if you heard our last debate, was on Cuba where he said the President wasn't going far enough, and where he, in effect, advocated policies that were universally interpreted as meaning intervention in the affairs of Cuba. And what would that have meant? It would have invited the very kind of intervention from abroad that could have brought war to this hemisphere and to the world. Three times up; three times down. How many tests does he get? All that I can say is this, my friends: I realize that he and his apologists and defenders say, "But, Mr. Nixon, he's changed his mind. He says now he supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu." That's right - he says now he didn't really mean "apologize and express regrets." That's right - he says now that on Cuba he's been misinterpreted, but that actually he's changed his mind perhaps, and now supports the President. Maybe he did, but my friends, remember this: When you're a candidate, you can say things - you can make mistakes and take them back the next day and nobody is the worse for it. But when you're President - sitting there in that oval room in the White House - when you make a mistake, it's for keeps: When you make a decision, you don't get a chance to take it back. I've seen the President make decisions. I remember the day we went into Lebanon, and I remember that on that day he knew the decision involved war or peace; and he took a risk, but he knew that there was a greater risk if we didn't go in. He was right. What if he had been wrong? My friends, I say to you today you have the test - the test, and the men who have been through the fire of decision, men who have had the experience of these last 7 years; men who will not guarantee you perfection, because nobody can do that, but who will reduce mistakes to a minimum. And then you have the choice, on the other side, of a man who has been rash, who has been impulsive. What is the answer? I say that we cannot use the White House in these critical periods as a training school to give experience to a man at the expense of the American people. And now, if I could make my last point, this is one that I particularly feel very strongly about, as this campaign nears its close, seeing a great audience like this, having seen the tumultuous reception that we had in the center of the city, having had a change to visit with some of those who were at the airport, I recognize the tremendous responsibilities that I will have or that my opponent will haves, whoever is the next President of the United States I just want to say to all of you here today that in this political campaign you will hear of much that is wrong about America. You will hear predictions about what is going to happen abroad and at home that will be terrifying. I would not want to conclude without concluding on a note of faith. My friends, have no doubt about it. America is not only the strongest country in the world militarily and the strongest country in the world economically; but, more than that, America, is honored in the world - and I'll tell you why. I have been to 54 countries. We are honored not because we're strong, but because we stand for and believe in the right things. You know what they are? Our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men; our believe that the rights men have to freedom and to equality of opportunity do not come from men, but that they come from God and, therefore, cannot be taken away by men; our belief that nations have a right to be independent, that men have a right to be free. Oh, those things, you say - those are just words. What can they mean in a great world struggle in which the Communists have missiles and productivity ? My answer is this: My friends; the militarists and the materialists throughout history have underestimated the strength of ideals: One hundred and eighty years ago America was a weak country militarily. We were not a rich country, but we were one of the strongest countries in the world because the believed in ideals that were greater than America - and today I tell you we will win this struggle for the peace of the world. The reason we will win is because we're on the right side. I have seen it in the faces of people in 54 countries around the world. I have seen it in the faces of people in the heart of Russia, itself, in Siberia. I have seen it in the faces of 250,000 people in Poland on a Sunday afternoon, in Warsaw. I know - I have faith - that the great American people will remember that the real source of their strength is their faith in what we believe, and that this comes not from your Government, not from a leader, but from you - it comes from the schools; it comes from the churches; it comes from the homes of America. And so, my last plea to you is this: keep America strong at home. Keep the young people of America instilled with a burning faith in our country's future, and also with a recognition of those ideals that have made us great. If you do that, then the next President of the United States will be able to lead America and the free world to a great victory over the forces of slavery, over the forces of injustice, and to victory without war. That's what we want. That's what we must have - and, with your help, we will have it. Thank you.
GEORGE I. BLOOM Chairman, Republican, State Committee of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pa.: As I pledged to you at our convention, I will have campaigned in every one of our Nation's 50 States by election day. I am supremely confident we will carry across the Nation if each of you rally your coworkers in a total commitment which will bring every voter for our ticket to the polls on November 8. I am confident that the American voters want a continuation of peace without surrender and prosperity without war. Our people know, too, that it is the voluntary efforts of 180 million Americans working through a free economy that will take us to the higher ground in the exciting and challenging decade ahead. This country does not want to go back to inflation, controls, and the artificialities of a wartime economy. Pat joins with me in expressing our deepest appreciation for all you have done and will do in the final days of this crucial campaign. I hope you will convey these sentiments to our coworkers in the broadest possible manner.   DICK NIXON.
Thank you very much. My friend; Senator Kuchel, this great audience here in Hayward - I think there has been a request that if you put your signs down the people in back can see a little better. Thank you very much. Just hold them down and then the people in back will be able to see. I don't mean the Kennedy signs. Leave them up, because I want somebody to convert here. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, we first want to tell you that do come to Hayward, to see this magnificent crowd in the * * * and in the rain, one, indicates that you care about your Government, that you want to make a decision that is in the best interests of the Nation, you want to hear the discussion of the issues by the candidates; and, two, from the enthusiasm of this reception, it means the great tide is running in our direction and on November the 8th, California will lead the Nation to victory for our ticket. [Cheers and applause.] I want to tell you what I have found. Yesterday in traveling through Texas and Wyoming, and Spokane, and finally ending up in Fresno, the day before traveling through Texas and South Carolina, the day before in a great motorcade in New York, at a rally there, I have found in the last 5 or 6 days a tremendous sweep is developing through this country, and I'll tell you why. [Cheers and applause.] The sweep is developing for us because the people of this country - not only the Republicans, which we would expect, but Democrats and independents by the millions - are now joining us because they realize that America's interests are at stake and they are voting for America rather than the party in this year 1960. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, there is no question that that is true. I noted, for example, in a speech yesterday Senator Kennedy said that the question that was being decided in this election campaign was between war and peace - and, boy, he's right. I would only point out - I would only point out - that he would go back to the policies that we left in 1953, and we had a war that Eisenhower got rid of. [Cheers and applause.] I would only point out that he should not raise this subject. We have had nine Presidents in this century. Name one Republican President who took us into war. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I would only point out, though, this is not a question of Republican or Democrat. It is a question of America and the leadership that can keep the peace, that can keep it without surrender, and I ask you today even though the conditions are difficult for you standing here in the rain, to consider for a moment the qualifications that are offered to the American people. First, the record. The record, my friends, I say is one that Americans can be proud of. Oh, I know we've heard that the * * * foreign policy have been years of defeat and retreat for America; but, my friends, the adjectives are right, but the administration is wrong. It wasn't the Eisenhower administration in which there was defeat and retreat, but the Truman administration. [Cheers and applause.] It was then that we lost 600 million people to the Communists because of woolly-headed, fuzzy-minded thinking, and it is that kind of thinking - those are the kind of advisers that my friend, Senator Kennedy, has. Those are the kind of advisers that he has. [Cheers and applause.] Do you want Mr. Bowles? Do you want Mr. Stevenson to be deciding the foreign policy of this country ? [Cries of "No ! "] [Cheers and applause.] My friends, we had enough of that fuzzy-minded, woolly-headed thinking, and we will never have it again under Cabot Lodge and Richard Nixon. You can be sure of that! [Cheers and applause.] Now, what will keep the peace? And I speak particularly to the mothers here. I speak to the children. I speak to the fathers as well who are thinking of their future and of America's future. I'll tell you what will keep it. My friends, I have seen the peace kept. I have seen the President make decisions that have meant the difference between war and peace. On 10 different occasions that I could name I have seen the resident in the Cabinet room or in the oval office of the White House decide one way or another, and if his decision had been wrong it could have led to war; if it were right, it could have meant peace - and each time he was right. I want to tell you why he was right. You know, my friends, in those 7½ years I have never seen President Eisenhower act in haste or anger. In those 7½ years I have never seen President Eisenhower shoot from the hip. In those 7½ years I have never seen him be panicked, panicked by what the public opinion people were saying about Quemoy and Matsu and the like, panicked by the polls that were taken in the United States and around the world. I have always heard him ask only this question: He said What is the right thing to do? What is the thing that would be firm for the right? What is the thing that will be also avoiding the wrong? And I have also in those 7½ years never seen him make a decision that wasn't courageous, that wasn't right for America. My friends, I'll tell you how we've kept the peace. It's by not doing the things that my opponent has suggested. If President Eisenhower, for example, had followed his advice on Quemoy and Matsu, if we had cut off a little island of freedom there, it would have been the same thing that happened in Korea - and never again must we invite the Communists in to attack as we did then, and I will never do that, I assure you. [Cheers and applause.] And then we had another situation at the summit conference in Paris. Look at what this great leader went through then, the great leader of the free world, going to this conference, working for peace and for freedom, and having Khrushchev, this man, in effect, insult him, call him every crude name - names, incidentally, that I have learned from the translator weren't even printed in the official transcript and in the papers of this country - and yet the President of the United States kept his dignity. And that's another thing the President must do. He must never lose his dignity and get down to the level of a man like Khrushchev. [Cheers and applause.] But, my friends, while he kept his dignity, he didn't do something else. Khrushchev said: Apologize, President Eisenhower. Express regrets for the U-2 flights, flights which he knew the President had ordered in order to defend the security of this country, and a lesser man, a panicky man, might have said: Well, maybe I'd better. Maybe this is the way to get Khrushchev to be on my side. But Dwight Eisenhower knew the dictators. He knew the Nazis and he knew that was not the way to peace. He knew the Communists and he knew that was not the way to peace. He knew that whenever you, in effect, give in to the demands, which were unjustified, it did not lead to peace. It led to war. And, so, he refused to apologize. And what did my opponent say? In Oregon, on the Dave Garroway Show, in our debates, he said the President of the United States could have apologized or expressed regrets to Khrushchev. He was wrong and Dwight Eisenhower was right - and thank God Dwight Eisenhower was President [cheers and applause] because, you see, if regrets had been expressed Khrushchev would have ground us into a pulp and got his demands on Berlin. And the third point - and this is what I call shooting from the hip - the difficult problem in Cuba, this little pipsqueak, Castro, down there stirring it up; and, so, everybody says; Why don't we get rid of him? Why don't we send the Marines in ? My friends, the reason we don't is that we don't want to make a second Hungary out of 5 million people on the island of Cuba. The reason we don't is that we know the people of Cuba will take care of this or any other dictator in their good time if they get the moral support of the United States. So, the President said: We will quarantine Castro. And what did my opponent say? Oh, he said, it isn't enough. He said the American Government should give support to the forces inside and outside of Cuba that were against Castro. That sounded good, didn't it? But, you know what it meant? That would have violated the treaties we had with all the Latin American States. It would have violated article 1 and article 2 of the United Nations Charter. So, the next day my opponent took it back. He didn't mean it. He only meant all along he was agreeing with President Eisenhower * * *. Let me say this: My friends, on all these three issues we have heard him say: I've changed my mind or at least I didn't mean what I was interpreted to mean, and now I support the President. And, so, people say: Isn't that enough of an answer? Why do we continue to discuss it? I'll tell you why. When you're a President of the United States and you're a candidate it's a different thing. Look, when you're a candidate, you can make a statement on a decision, and it can be wrong, and you can correct it the next day, and nobody is the worse for it; but when you're President, in that lonely, awesome responsibility that you have, when you speak or when you act, it's for keeps. You don't get a chance to take it back. And I say, my friends, today that in this critical period it is an issue of war or peace, but a rash act, an inexperienced act, an impulsive act could lead to war - and I say we cannot use the White House as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] Now, may I tell you what we offer in this field. My friends, I would like to tell you Cabot Lodge and I, if we are elected, will solve all the problems of the world and Mr. Khrushchev and Mr. Mao Tse-tung will be good boys, but that isn't true. I know these people. I have known them for many years, and I know their fanatical dedication to one objective, and that's conquering the world by any means. They're going to continue to stir up trouble, but, my friends, we can have peace, and we will have peace, if we always remember that we've got to be strong until they reduce their strength by inspection, that we have to be firm unless they make a concession which is equal to what we're willing to concede and, above all, we can have peace if we stand for the right. You know what that is? Not military strength; not economic richness, but the reason that America stands high and is honored in the world, the reason that 250,000 Poles and people by the thousands in the heart of Siberia cheered my wife and me when we were there was that America stands for the right. We stand for peace. Three wars we have fought, and we haven't gotten an acre of territory out of it. Only we have fought to extend peace and freedom for others. And we stand for freedom. We stand for it not only for ourselves, but for the whole world. We stand for faith, and it is our faith, our faith in God, our faith in ourselves, our faith in our ideals - it is these ideals that will win the struggle for the world, and it is these ideal that will bring down the tyrants, and bring them down without war, and that is what I tell you here today. [Cheers and applause.] So, here is your choice. Your choice, then, is between two men. One has been part of this administration: One has been through the fire of decision. One knows Mr. Khrushchev. One knows at least something about how to deal with him. The other one says and has indicated that on three critical occasions he would have made the wrong decision if he had been President. The question is: Do you take a chance or do you go forward on the kind of policies that Dwight Eisenhower has given the United States? And I say we go forward. [Cheers and applause.] And I ask you: Isn't this bigger than Republican or Democrat? This is America. This is freedom. This is peace. This is our faith, and everything we stand for. And I say to you: Forget your party label. Forget how your grandfather and your father voted. Remember - vote for what's best for America and then that will be best for you and all the people of the world. Thank you very much. [Cheers and applause.]
Thank you very much. Senator Kuchel, this great audience here in the Pan-Pacific and all of you listening on television and radio throughout the Nation, I'm sure you know what a great thrill it is for Pat and me to receive such a magnificent welcome in our home State of California. [Cheers and applause.] And I want to tell you something about the last 3 days of our campaign, three of the greatest days of campaigning that it has been my privilege to experience. We left New York City - I'm sure some of you saw the telecast from there in which the President participated [cheers and applause] - we left New York City on Thursday morning we flew to Columbia, S.C., and then on to Teas, and in Columbia, S.C., at the Alamo in San Antonio, and in Houston, Tex., all in that day, we had the biggest crowds ever held by any candidate, Republican or Democrat, in any of those cities [cheers and applause]. In Forth Worth, Tex., the next day, at morning, and then at Casper, Wyo., at Spokane, Wash., and Fresno, Calif., all on Friday, and then today moving through the State of California, in San Jose, at Hayward, at Oakland at noon, finally at Van Nuys at night in the rain, and then here at the Pan-Pacific, again record crowds, record enthusiasm, the greatest it has been my privilege ever to address. [Cheers an applause.] And the same is true throughout the Nation - the President's receptions in Cleveland and Pittsburgh. The word from around the country is that a, great tide is running, a tide is running for our ticket that will carry us to victory on November the 8th. [Cheers and applause.] But, my friends, it is because that tide is running that we, from now until Tuesday, face up to what are really the critical days. We must keep it running, running at high tide so that we assure the victory which is so essential to America on November the 8th. [Cheers and applause.] And, consequently, I tell you what I'm going to do between now and then. Tomorrow I first make a broadcast which will be carried at 10 o'clock on CBS, one of the most important speeches of this campaign. I then fly to Alaska. We return from Alaska at night, arriving on Monday morning for a breakfast at Madison, Wis. We then go over to Detroit for a noon meeting, and then we have an unprecedented 4-hour national telethon where people throughout the country can ask any question they want of a candidate for President of the United States, for 4 hours. [Cheers and applause.] That's only half the day. After we finish the engagement there, we go on to Chicago for the election eve broadcast on which the President will appear from Washington, the Vice Presidential candidate, Henry Cabot Lodge, from Massachusetts. I will be in Chicago. And then we fly on to Ontario, Calif., for a midnight torchlight parade - and that ends the campaign. [Cheers and applause.] Now, there are several things about this schedule that will impress you: One: It is the first time in the history of American politics that any candidate for the Presidency has ever visited 50 States. It will be the longest campaign in terms of miles traveled. It will be the greatest campaign in terms of people spoken to. It will be, I think, the most effective campaign ever waged, and I want to tell you why we are fighting right up to the last minute. It's the reason you are here tonight. It is the reason that I have found such tremendous enthusiasm throughout this country. The reason is, as Ronald Reagan indicated earlier, that this is a cause bigger than any party. It is as big as America, itself, and America, must go forward and build on the great policies of Dwight Eisenhower and not go back to the policies we left 7½ years ago. [Cheers and applause.] Because, you see, my fellow Californians and my fellow Americans, that basically is the choice. We have here the offer of our opponents, of taking us back. Oh, they say they're going to new frontiers, but it's the same old policies, with a few new fringes, and we find that as far as we are concerned, we offer the kind of leadership that will move America forward. So, I suggest tonight on this closing rally of the campaign here in California that we look at the case for their side, what they offer America, that we look at the case we offer, and then let the American people take their choice. And, first, they say - they say, first of all - the reason why we must reject and repudiate the policies of this administration, why we must not build on them, but turn away from them - the reason, first, they say, is - and I quote - "That America has been standing still for the last 7½ years." [Cries of "No."] And that is the answer I get every place in America. Anyone who says America has been standing still hasn't been traveling around America. He's been in some foreign country. [Cheers and applause.] You know, and all of you listening on television know, that the Eisenhower years have been years of the greatest progress in education, in housing, in highways, in growth, in every area, in real income and real wages and jobs that America has ever had; and certainly, as we consider that charge, it doesn't stand up, and our opponent fights with the truth. And what else does he say? What other reason does he give? Well, in the field of foreign policy, he says we must turn away, turn away from the policies - and then again I quote - "because the policies of the past 7½ years have been policies of defeat and retreat and stagnation." My friends, the adjectives are all right [Cries of "No."] The adjectives are all right, but he's got the wrong administration. That's the Truman administration he's describing. [Cheers and applause.] Because it was in the Truman administration that 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain. We all know that it was in that administration that due to fuzzy-minded, woolly-headed thinking on the part of the people in the administration that we ended up with a war in Korea, and that 140,000 Americans were casualties in that war, and we all know that one of the reasons the American people elected Dwight Eisenhower was to end that war, and he did it, and has kept the peace and the American people are grateful for that. And, you know, that argument doesn't stand up, and now we go to the third argument, and this one is very difficult to understand and difficult to believe. It runs something like this: America is now second in education. We're second in science. We're second in space. We're going to be second as far as other things are concerned. [Cries of "No." ] And that is the answer I get all over America. Let me say this: That anybody who tries to run for the Presidency on the ground of falsely running down the United States isn't fit to be President of the United States of America. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, we recognize that there are things wrong with our education and in our science and our other programs, but we still are first in the world in those areas, and we will continue to be, if we remain true to the principles that have made America great. [Cheers and applause.] And now the fourth charge and the fourth reason that, he gives for a change in direction, and the latest one is this: He predicts that we're going to have a slump, a recession. Oh, I saw it in the newspaper when I was in Detroit the other day - an eight-column head saying: "Kennedy Predicts Slump." My friends, you know what the eight-column head immediately above that was: "New Cars Selling at All-Time High in the United States of America." [Cheers and applause.] You know what that means! We have a slump in this country only if people lose confidence in America, if they quit buying cars and refrigerators and the other things that make for prosperity. Today people are buying more; they're spending more; they're investing more; they're saving more than ever in history, and it's going to take more than a political minded candidate to talk the American people into a slump or a recession. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, here the four charges are made. They all fall down. And what are the remedies that he offers for these illusory things and faults that he finds with America. Well, they say Kennedy is the remedy, but when we look at Kennedy's remedy, it's the same old medicine man show that we used to hear about. It's the same old show. [Cheers and applause.] You remember the medicine man that used to come to town? He had a cure-all for everything. It was the same medicine for everything. It would cure snake bite and rheumatism and anything else that you had. All you had to do to get the cure was to give him your money, and then you didn't get the cure. [Cheers and applause.] And that's all he says today, The Kennedy remedy, as you might expect from a Kennedy, is: "Give me your money and I'll take care of all of your problems." [Cheers and applause.] How much? How much money? $15 billion. That is what it would cost simply to pay for the promises he's already made in this campaign. That is what it would cost to carry out the platform that was adopted here in Los Angeles. And, so, the problem that we have is this: How are we going to get the $15 billion? He says: I'm not going to raise taxes. He says: I'm going to balance the budget, but he says: I'm also for the platform. Now, my friends, if you spend $15 billion a year more of the Federal Government's money, and that's your money, and don't raise taxes and still balance the budget, I'll tell you - you're a genius, and certainly a genius such as we have never been able to develop in this country in the history of civilization. It just isn't possible. He knows that, and I'll tell you what the answer is. If we are to carry out that platform, it means to everyone listening to me tonight that either he has to raise the taxes of the American people or he has to adopt policies that would raise the prices of everything we buy. Do you know what that would mean? We went through that before. That's why I say we aren't going back, because during the 7 Truman years, you recall the value of your dollars went, down, were cut its half. You had wage increases, but it didn't mean anything because at the end of that 7 years the price increases had eaten it all up; and those living on social security and pensions - to them, it was the cruelest of all because you found that while your income did not go up the value of what you had went down because your Government broke faith with you. My friends, we have a program for progress, but we say we want progress without breaking faith with the American people and by seeing to it that a dollar earned today is worth a dollar tomorrow or 5 years or 10 years from now. [Cheers and applause.] That is why we have a program in the field of education that will raise the standards and the compensation for our teachers, that will see to it that our young people who have the responsibility and the ability to go to college get that opportunity, but which will do these things without running any risk of having the Federal Government interfere in the education plans of the States and towns of this country. [Cheers and applause.] That is why we have a program in social security, one which will extend benefits to 2 million people that they could not cover with their program, but one that would extend the benefits, but would not take away the benefits and wreck the program by inflating the money, as would his wild spending programs. [Cheers and applause.] And that is why we have a program for medical care for the aged, a program which will provide that all of our citizens over 55 who want health insurance will be able to get it, will have a choice, but that no one who does not want it will be forced to have it against his will. That is the American way to do this. [Cheers and applause.] Why will our programs succeed where his won't? They will succeed where his won't because we, rather than giving up on people, have faith in people. We say that the way to progress in America is not through turning over everything to the Federal Government, but through the Federal Government adopting programs and policies which will encourage the creative genius of 180 million free Americans. [Cheers and applause.] And now we turn to the foreign policy area. What does he offer here? Well, we again look at him and his record in this campaign, and all that I can say, after that record, is that it is the return again to the policies we left behind. You recall the three great instances in which we had disagreement during the course of our debates in this campaign On Quemoy and Matsu, where he would have drawn a line, as Acheson did on Korea, and invited the Communists in. It would have resulted in war, I believe. The President was right. He was wrong. On Berlin, where he indicated the President could have apologized for the U-2 flights. The President was right, and he was wrong. On Cuba, you recall, where he disagreed with the President and said his policies were not enough and advocated a policy which around the world had such repercussions that the neat day he took it back. As a matter of fact, my friends, on every one of these three instances his friends and supporters say: But, Mr. Nixon, he changed his mind. He's now for the President on Cuba. He now says that the President did the right thing in Paris. He now says he supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu. But, my friends, consider what a President must do. When you're a candidate for the Presidency of the United States, you can make a statement, make a mistake and correct it the next day, and nobody is the worse for it; but when you're the President of the United States, when you sit there in that lonely oval office in the White House - and I have been there when the President has made great decisions, when you decide, it is for keeps. And I say to you today that in this critical period when a wrong decision by a President could lead either to war or surrender for America and the free world we cannot afford to use the White House as a training school for a man to get experience at the expense of the American people. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, then, I ask you to join with us. What do we offer? Cabot Lodge and I offer the experience of 7½ years. We offer the fact that we know those who threaten the peace of the world. We offer the fact that we have not been taken in by them. We offer not just standing still on where we are, but we offer a grand offensive for peace, a grand offensive for freedom throughout the world, and we ask you to join us in that offensive, and we say to you, my friends, that we will win. We will win for this reason: Because America is on the right side. I know this. I have been around the world. I have been on both sides of the Iron Curtain, and in the minds and the hearts of men throughout the world what we stand for the world wants. What is the thing that makes America great? Not our military strength; not our economic might, but the fact that we stand for the right things - our faith in God; our belief in the dignity of all men; our belief that the rights that men have come not from men, but from God and cannot be taken away by men; our belief that men [cheers and applause] - our belief - and this is the American destiny - that the freedom that we enjoy, that this faith which is ours, belongs not just to us, but to the whole world, and it is our mission in the world to lead the forces of freedom and peace to victory without war. [Cheers and applause.] It is that crusade - it is that great objective - to which my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I are dedicated. My friends, it was only 8 years ago on this very night that I spoke here and I asked you to join a crusade, a crusade to end a war in Korea, to clean up the mess in Washington. You did, and the job was done. And now tonight I ask you to join us in a new crusade, a crusade to keep the peace, a crusade to extend freedom, a crusade to bring to all the people of the world what we enjoy here - freedom, justice for all. It can be done. It will be done - and, with your help, there is no question but that we will prevail and that America will lead the world. Thank you. [Cheers and applause.]
In the final hours of the 1960 presidential campaign, it is appropriate to reflect for a moment on where we stand before looking ahead to the situation in which the Nation will find itself in 1961. None will disagree that this has been a long and hard-fought campaign for both Senator Kennedy and me. Certainly more voters have seen and heard us in person and electronically than in any previous campaign, absolutely and relatively. Because we live in a jet age, I have been able to go to all 50 States of our great land. Now, as usual, there are some who say that there has been public apathy in this campaign and that the issues have not been sharply drawn. To those suffering from this chronic form of political myopia I say, wait until you see the avalanche of votes that the American people will deposit in their ballot boxes and voting machines on Tuesday. A new record will be set. Very often a candidate can see and feel what others cannot, because he, in the final analysis, is the one who stands before the people to ask for their mandate to the most important public office on this earth. I have felt a deep public conviction that this 1960 presidential election is one of the most crucial in American history. The people have a common intuition that no individual can equal. They see the issues clearly and they understand the depth of the division between myself and Senator Kennedy. They know that we would go in two fundamentally different directions both at home and abroad. After an earlier public career that would have indicated otherwise, Senator Kennedy has committed himself irrevocably to the concept of the infallibility of the state. He prefers government action to individual action. He prefers government spending to individual spending. Every single program he has set forth finds its central mechanism in some law, some Executive order, some appropriation by the Federal Government in Washington. He does not shy from Federal involvement in our private affairs or from bureaucratic controls. In the case of his farm program, to take a typical but important example, he would bring every single facet of our agricultural life under Government direction, an effort which by conservative estimates would require a force of at least 50,000 new Federal inspectors. My views are almost exactly the opposite from his. I oppose the concept of Federal involvement wherever it is reasonably possible to find other solutions. My trust reposes first in the creativity of 180 million free Americans whose energies and instincts for the right course have brought into being the most advanced, the most abundant, the most classless society in human history. I prefer, in the first instance, private activity. Then, where it is advantageous for people to deal collectively with their problems, I prefer action at the local level, then the State level, and finally at the Federal level. There are, of course, many, many things which require Federal action, and I believe in taking Federal action when it is needed without hesitation. But the fundamental difference between us is at the starting point. He starts by wanting Federal control. I start by actively seeking some way to exercise private or public leadership to get the job done from the people up rather than from the Government down. Accordingly, I have a deep conviction that his programs would take us from a direction which in the past 7½ years has given America the greatest peacetime progress, the greatest peacetime prosperity in all our history. I am deeply convinced that his programs are regressive and would lead us backward to economic misfortunes which we have known in the recent past and from which we have moved safely away. I do not believe, as apparently the Senator does, that we can tag away or cheapen the people's money to support indiscriminate Federal expenditures without seriously weakening our free enterprise system. And that is exactly what he proposes to do. The programs which he and his platform would launch would cost, by conservative estimate, a total of $15 billion a year more of the people's money. This means, as I have shown, that two-thirds of this increase would have to be paid by those earning under $10,000 a year, even if the Government confiscated all income above that amount. A Kennedy administration would inescapably mean higher taxes, higher prices and a return to objectionable Government controls. It would endanger the stability of our free system at the very moment when our gigantic strength is most needed in the world struggle. The very threat of the policies, domestic and foreign, which Kennedy has espoused as a contender for the American Presidency has evoked concern in every area of the free world and outright dismay in many. It is with great confidence that I say I am certain at the conclusion of this campaign that the people are acutely aware of this difference between us - that they know what it means to them individually - and that they distrust and will reject the Senator's statist concept. My feeling is equally strong about the public intuition regarding our policies abroad. It is not unusual, since this has been the pattern throughout the world, that those who believe in the efficiency and superiority of state action are less sensitive to the. implications of state tyranny which is the great challenge that America faces in the world today. We simply cannot retreat from the hard situations in an attempt to ease the pressures on us from Communist aggressions. But retreat is clearly the implication of the two sharply focused issues which have arisen between us in this campaign. The details of these, on which the voters have heard endless discussion, are not the important aspects of these particular issues. In each case it is the principle which undergirded the argument between Senator Kennedy and myself which is vital. On Quemoy and Matsu, he argues in favor of open and avowed retreat from a position which he finds uncomfortably close to the Communist menace. It is as though we could settle something by the mere act of withdrawing to a new position. Closeness is not the evil. So long as they hold their aggressive design for world conquest, the Communists will always be close. The more we withdraw the closer and the faster they will come on. It this were an isolated example of the Senator's foreign policy, I would say he had opened the issue in our second debate for nothing more than political opportunism. But this is not the case. He has indicated the same tendencies on a point of conflict with the Soviets of far more critical nature - Berlin. And in Berlin, of course, the forces of freedom are not only close to the Communist forces, they are surrounded by them. Mr. Kennedy thought that it was vital to preserve the negotiations at the summit conference in Paris, which had as the first item on the agenda Mr. Khrushchev's demand that Western forces withdraw from Berlin. Mr. Kennedy would have preserved these negotiations even at the price of having the President apologize to Mr. Khrushchev for attempting to safeguard by the U-2 flights our own Nation and the free world from Soviet surprise nuclear attack. An apology in those, circumstances could only have been intended to hold Mr. Khrushchev at the conference table in Paris. But we can be certain it would not have held him long. Looking back, the one thing most would agree on is that the Soviets had no intention of reaching agreement unless it was on their terms. Mr. Khrushchev, who hammers his shoe on the desk at the United Nations Assembly meetings and shouts imprecations at the heads of member governments is not interested in diplomatic niceties. His purpose is to force us out of Berlin. The apology would have had to be followed soon by demands for still more concessions on Berlin if the American purpose was simply to keep Mr. Khrushchev in Paris. Such, of course, was not then, and should never be, the American purpose. We should be prepared, as we have been prepared, to negotiate and negotiate again with Mr. Khrushchev whenever it will serve peace and freedom. But we cannot ever serve either peace or freedom by retreating before his threats. In honest bargaining, concession must be matched only by concession. Only thus can negotiations be fruitful. A one-way concession would be suicidal. These have been the fundamental issues between the Senator and me. They have had a full and attentive hearing by the American electorate. I am certain the electorate will deliver its verdict in a volume that will prove beyond any reasonable doubt the deep concern of the Nation in this vital election. If the outcome is as I confidently expect it to be, I will undertake the grave responsibilities of the Presidency with vigor and deep awareness of the inadequacies of any one human for the task ahead. The future will be a test of faith and strength for all Americans. It will be a time for rededication by the Nation and its leaders. On us - our courage and our faith - can depend the issue of peace and freedom for the rest of this country. On us could depend the future, itself.
The most difficult and trying responsibility of the President of the United States is dealing with the Communist tactics of crisis. Since World War II, both Mr. Truman and President Eisenhower have had to meet and oppose these Communist crises in almost every year of their administrations. You all remember how Truman managed. In the first series of crises rising out of the defeat of Germany and the conferences at Yalta and Potsdam, we saw all of the countries of Eastern Europe - Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia - fall behind the Iron Curtain. On the other side of the World, China fell and we found ourselves in the Korean war. President Eisenhower brought a halt to the Communist advances. In Asia, he ended the Korean war and stopped the Communist probings in Indochina and the Formosa Strait. He stopped them in the Middle East, and just last year and this he called Mr. Khrushchev's bluff on Berlin. This was the net result of the Paris Conference when Mr. Khrushchev found that he was up against a solid wall of resistance when he tried to force President Eisenhower to apologize for the U-2 incident: Had he gotten the apology, of course, it would have been an abject concession with nothing of substance in return. We can be certain that Mr. Khrushchev's next demand would have been agreement on withdrawal of western forces from Berlin. President Eisenhower did not weaken his position and give in to Mr. Khrushchev's demand. West Berlin remains free. This brings us to the main reason why the Communist tactics of crisis after crisis were successful against Mr. Truman's policies and failed against President Eisenhower's policies. You cannot deal with the Communists by giving them what they seem to want in trying to get them to negotiate or sign an agreement, much less to live up to it. You cannot deal with the Communists by drawing a line on our side of a piece of territory they are threatening and then say, as Mr. Acheson said about South Korea: "We won't defend what you are after now, but do not go a step farther." Both of these attitudes are attitudes of weakness. And both attitudes have been taken by Senator Kennedy in stating his foreign policy in this campaign. As to the Formosa Strait, he has said exactly what Mr. Acheson said in Korea: "We will not defend the line now under attack - the line of Quemoy and Matsu. But don't press us too far; we will defend the next line." If ever established as a part of our foreign policy, this is the kind of vacillation that might well bring war in the Formosa Strait. At the Paris Conference, he would have apologized or expressed regrets to Mr. Khrushchev in order to keep him at the conference table. This would have been an even greater invitation to disaster. Mr. Khrushchev's next demand would have been for satisfaction of his demands on Berlin. The show of weakness could only have led toward surrender in Berlin, and, quite possibly, in the end, to war in Europe. The policies of this administration have blocked the Communists' attempts to advance through crisis after crisis, but no one can stop the Communists from using these tactics. It is virtually the only way the Communists can advance. That is so because they have yet to win a single free election anywhere in the world. The next President of the United States - early in his administration - is almost certainly going to have to deal with a new Berlin crisis. Mr. Khrushchev can be expected to try again. Whether we have peace without surrender, or surrender, or even war, will be the fateful question in the balance. Senator Kennedy's answer - the answer of apology, the answer of retreat - is the wrong answer.
Thank you very much. Senator Knowland, Senator Kuchel, our distinguished guests on this platform, and this magnificent crowd here in Oakland and Alameda County: This is indeed one of the high points of this whole campaign. To come here on a Saturday at noontime, a very busy day, a day when I know you have other things you could do, and then to see this tremendous outpouring of people is the very inspiration, believe me, which we know is going to be effective here, but also points the way, points the way to carrying California on November the 8th, and that means the Nation. [Cheers and applause.] As you can note from the coat I am wearing, it is an eastern coat, but I needed it this morning. We had tremendous rain down the line at Hayward, and also at San Jose, but I want you to know that at both Hayward and San Jose they had the biggest crowds they ever had at a political meeting for any candidate in history in the rain. [Cheers and applause.] And in this whole past week, we have seen a great tide running. For example, you read about the meeting in New York. From there we went to Columbia, S.C., and there in the heart of the southland, speaking from the State House steps, the largest crowd to ever hear either a Republican or a Democratic candidate in that Democratic State of South Carolina. [Cheers and applause.] After that came Texas, 2 days ago, and there in San Antonio, in Houston, we had crowds which exceeded any that had ever come out for a candidate before. So, Texas is going to go for our ticket in November. [Cheers and applause.] The same yesterday in Wyoming, in the morning at Fort Worth, in Wyoming, at Casper at noon, and then in the afternoon a little later we were in the State of Washington, at Spokane, last night in Fresno, and each time record crowds, but, my friends, I want to tell you what it means. This is not simply a case of people coming out for curiosity's sake. What I have noticed is the tremendous enthusiasm among these people. The people of the United States in this last week have finally caught up with the promises that have been made by our opponents. They realize that it's a modern medicine man show, a Pied Piper from Boston, and they're not going to go down that way. [Cheers and applause.] And the choice that we make in California, the choice that we make in the Nation is one that is not a choice between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. This choice, my friends, is bigger than any party. It involves the future of America. It involves the future of the whole world, and I ask each of you, my fellow Californians, today: I could well stand before you and say: I'm a Californian. Vote for me for that reason. I could stand before you and say: I'm a Republican. If you are a Republican, vote for me for that reason. But I say to you: Look into your minds; look into your hearts; think of what is best for America, and you vote on November 8 what is best for America - and that will be what we all want in this Nation. [Cheers and applause.] Now, what will you decide? You will be deciding, my friends, in effect, between building on and going forward or going back to policies we left in 1953. That's what you will decide, and, you know, I think this whole campaign at home is summed up in the words "standing still." My opponent goes all around the country - even yesterday on television he said America's been standing still for 7½ years and we've got to get her going again. [Cries of "No."] You know that isn't true. [Cries of "Yes."] Look around you. My friends, if America, has been standing still, how did Oakland become the All-American city? [Cheers and applause.] How did you have this tremendous development in this bay area? How did you have the new enterprise, the new shopping centers, the new factories? How did California develop as it has? No, my friends. Anybody who says America has been standing still hasn't been traveling through America. I've been to 49 States, more than any other candidate has ever been to. By tomorrow I will be in Alaska. That's 50 States, and America has moved in the Eisenhower years, and in our neat 4 years we can move even further because we will be building on the great base that President Eisenhower has left for the American people. [Cheers and applause.] Now, there's one other point I want to make, however. I make it here in this great community, where we have in this area great universities - California, where you can see the flag in the distance [cheers and applause], and Stanford - don't boo California now - Stanford down the line. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I am getting sick and tired of hearing the opposition candidate saying over and over again that American is second in science, second in education, second in space. It's not true. I deny it., and the American people know it isn't true. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, I have been to the Soviet Union. I know the challenge is a real one. I've had Mr. Khrushchev shake his fist under my chin, and say he's going to catch us. But, my friends, whether it's education, whether it's science, whether it's economic development, you can be sure their society is behind us now, and it will never catch us if we remain true to our principles and don't turn their way, rather than our way. That is what we must do in these years ahead. [Cheers and applause.] Let's take science for a moment. I was just handed a memo as I got here on the stage by a man who is from the University of California. He pointed out that two people there, two faculty members, were awarded Nobel prizes in chemistry and physics. That's 10 for the University of California alone. [Cheers and applause.] That's more than any other institution in America, and I believe that it's more than the whole Soviet Union combined. [Cheers and applause.] What about education? My friends, there are many things about American education that must be improved, and we have a program, a dynamic one, which will improve American education and move it forward, but one which will move American education forward, which will raise the standards of our teachers, which will build the schools that we need, but without having the Federal Government intervene. [Cheers and applause.] We say, for example, that every young person in America who has the ability to go to school, to college, must have that opportunity. We can't waste a young scientist, a young engineer, a young lawyer, a young doctor, a young minister, simply because he can't afford to go to college. What do you do about it? Their answer is: Turn it all over to the Federal Government. Our answer is: The Federal Government provides loans when necessary * * * should provide some scholarships, but we say, above everything else, the way to do it is to encourage the people of this country to have self-reliance, as they always have; and, so, that's why we have a program in which I advocate giving tax credits and tag deductions to parents who save their money and send their children to college and the universities. [Cheers and applause.] One other point I make with regard to standing still: What about civil rights? I have been asked. Well, all I can say is this - and, Bill, you, as a man, Senator Knowland, and Senator Kuchel, have steered through in the Senate some of these great bills. Let me say that in this field of civil rights we have had more progress in our 8 years than we have had in the previous 80 years. They talk and we act, and the American people know that. [Cheers and applause.] And I would only suggest that we can say something that our opponent does not. I can appear with my running mate in any State of this country - and I'm proud to be with him here, in New York, or any place else. [Cheers and applause.] We can say something they do not. I can say that in this field I have supported and will continue to support the kind of leadership that America needs. It isn't talk; it's action. And, my friends, we must move forward in this area, move forward because, as I have said over and over again after my trips abroad, America cannot talk one way abroad and act with prejudice or hatred at home - and I pledge to you, - and here again this is bigger than any party - that in our administration, the will make progress, make progress so that all of our people will have that American dream of opportunity, opportunity without regard to the background that they may have. And finally I turn to the critical issue, an issue that has often been discussed in this campaign, the issue that is the most important of all. I noticed, for example, that in the morning papers my opponent was quoted to the effect that the decision that was to be made in this campaign was whether we were to have war or peace, and I would only suggest that for him to raise that point comes from a man who ought to be talking about something else. I point out there have been nine Presidents in this century, and if he wants to be partisan about it - name one Republican President under which we've had a war. [Cheers and applause.] My friends this has nothing to do with party, of course. Democrats, Republicans, independents - all are for peace; but when we talk of leadership in this area let us never forget it isn't just enough to be for peace. You've got to know something about it. You've got to have some experience. And, so, here you have the choice, You have the choice on the one side of our friends, on the other side, who say: We believe that the Eisenhower years have been years of defeat and retreat. You know, let me say the adjectives are all right, but they've got them on the wrong administration. It was the Truman administration. [Cheers and applause.] And then may I also suggest that as far as war and peace are concerned that when we look at the record of the Eisenhower years I am immensely proud that Cabot Lodge and I can offer you the fact that for 7 years we have sat in the high councils of this administration, in the Cabinet, in the Security Council, in the decisionmaking bodies, and in those 7 years, whatever the opposition may say, the American people know the truth. We ended the war we were in; we've avoided other wars, and we do have peace without surrender today - and we're going to keep it that way. Cheers and applause.] I am also able to say that both my colleague, Cabot Lodge, and I know Mr. Khrushchev. We have sat opposite him at the conference table. We have not been fooled by him, and I do not believe we ever will be fooled by him because we know what communism wants. It is not just Quemoy and Matsu. It is not just Formosa. It is the world, and the way to peace in dealing with dictators is to be firm in the right as they are firm in the wrong. Let us never forget that. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, what about the need for new leadership? they say. And all I can say is this: What do our opponents offer? Untried leadership. Take a chance. Rash, impulsive, shoot from the hip. Let me tell you why the President has been successful. I have been there when each of the 10 great decisions have been made - at least 10 - that could have avoided war, and you know what his characteristics were? (1) He never shot from the hip; (2) he was always the coolest man in the room; (3) he was always a man never to answer insults with insults where foreign officials were concerned; and (4) he was a man who thought first, last, and always, not only of peace, but of the lessons of history. That's why when those who said, as my opponent did, against what Senator Knowland and the majority of the Democrats and the Republicans in the Senate said in 1955 - when they urged the President to say "draw a line; turn over Quemoy and Matsu to the Communists, the President said, "No." Why? Because he knew that would lead to war, as it did in Korea. I say we learned our lesson in Korea, and we are never going to make that mistake again, I promise you, under my leadership. And then, too, what would we have done if he had been the President of the United States at the summit conference in Paris? The President of the United States stood there, Khrushchev insulting him, using language, I learned from the interpreter, so crude that it was not even recorded in the newspapers, and the President of the United States, keeping his dignity, not getting down to the level of the man who was insulting him, but also refusing to apologize and express regrets for flights treat were necessary to defend the security of the United States. This was right, and Senator Kennedy was wrong in suggesting that he do that. [Cheers and applause.] And then, three, we have the lesson in Cuba, here again the President, with great statesmanship, saying he will contain Mr. Castro; we will contain him economically and politically, Senator Kennedy saying "No'"; we've got to go further, and then shooting from the hip, advocating direct Government intervention, in effect, and it was interpreted that way all over the free world, in the affairs of Cuba. What would that have done? It would have decimated the people of that island. It would have invited the Communists in. It would have broken every commitment we had, not only to the United Nations, but also to our friends in the Americas. And, so, what do you say about this? Well, his friends say: But he changed his mind. He' s now for the President on Quemoy and Matsu. He's for the President on the summit conference. He agrees with the President on Cuba. My answer, my friends, is this: When you're a candidate, you know, you can say something and take it back the next day and nobody's the worse for it, but when you're President of the United States, when you sit there in that lonely, awesome responsibility, when you speak, when you act, it's for keeps - and if you're wrong it will mean war or surrender of peace and freedom. My friends, I say to you today - I say to you - we cannot afford to use the White House of this country as a training school to give a man experience to be President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, let me tell you what we offer. I would like to tell you that if Cabot Lodge and I are elected you will not have to worry about Mr. Khrushchev or Mr. Mao Tse-tung or the other leaders, but I will not tell you that because I know the truth. I know that these men are fanatics. I know that they are dedicated to conquering the world by any means, and I know that we're going to have trouble but also I know this: I know that we can keep the peace. We can seep the peace if we're strong. We can keep the peace if we're firm. We can keep the peace if we're wise, if we don't lose our tempers in a crisis, and if we constantly strengthen the instruments of peace - the United Nations, the Organization of American States - if we constantly take the initiative for peace. That's why I intend to send Cabot Lodge, if we win this election, to Geneva to break the stalemate on atomic tests. We have got to take the initiative, take the initiative in seeing to it that the Communists go along in reducing the danger of war - and, my friends, it can be done, but it will not be done if we make the fatal error, the fatal error of retracting the wise policies of Dwight Eisenhower and turning back to the fuzzy-minded, woolly-headed policies that got us into our troubles in 1952. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, I say to you: Three days are left. I ask you: Consider what I say, what my opponent says - not as Republicans, not as Democrats, but as Americans. As you consider it, may I urge you: Think of what America means. Think of what the men offer. Think of nothing else, not the party labels * * * if you think of that, if you vote for what is best for America, this will be a great victory - not just for a man or a party, but a victory for America and the cause of peace and freedom throughout the world. Thank you very much. [Cheers and applause.]
Mr. Kennedy faced both ways in Virginia yesterday. Since Virginians are known for their fiscal prudence and do not take kindly to freewheeling spenders, he offered them some well-tailored remarks. In Norfolk, Mr. Kennedy said: "I commit myself and my party to a sound fiscal policy in the 1960's." What does he take those Virginians and the rest of the American people for? He will be listened to on his promises of sound fiscal policy when he:  Repudiates the pledges from his Los Angeles platform which would add more than 15 billion annually to the Federal budget; or Tells us how he plans to pay for what he has promised - higher taxes, deficit-financed higher prices, or both; Retracts statements clearly foreshadowing the reduction of the independent Federal Reserve System to White House vassalage in order to carry out his cheap money policy; Abandons his fantastic farm plan which will put our farmers under virtual police-state controls and raises the price of food 25 percent. He can't have it both ways. He can't go to Virginia and be sensible for one hour of one day of one week, and then during the rest of the time espouse his platform's free-spending, cheap-money doctrines. America is a, big place but not so big that such tactics go undiscovered. It is synthetic bunk for Mr. Kennedy to represent to the American people that his lavish spending programs can be financed as he has sought to do, by closing tax loopholes, by economies in administration, or by economic growth. What loopholes is he going to close - the oil and gas depletion allowance? Has he cleared that with Lyndon? Just what administrative economies is he going to make? Does the past record show that such an administration ever achieved any important economies, or is their record one of more bureaus, bigger payrolls, more waste? You know the answer. Does he think he can spur the economy's growth by some $85 billion in 1 or 2 years? That is what he would have to do to get his $16 billion a year of new revenues at going tax rates. Short of war, Mr. Kennedy cannot spend us into prosperity. If he tried, the country would have a Kennedy inflation followed by a Kennedy depression and at the end of such a cycle the Kennedy dollar would be shrunken indeed. So would the value of your social security pensions, savings, and your paycheck. So Mr. Kennedy is still faced with that annoying little question that, will not go away: Where is the money coming from? He can either renounce his irresponsible platform promises and make a real try at a sound fiscal policy, or he can stick with his free-spending, loose-money program and its high-tax, high-price; boom-and-bust aftermath. It is late in the campaign but it is not too late for my opponent to say - What way is he facing?
Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your wonderful welcome. I want to say, too, that I particularly appreciate the opportunity to be here in Alaska and in Anchorage and, as I indicated at the airport, this is indeed, a historic moment. It is one that will never be duplicated. This is the first time in the history of the United States that a candidate for the Presidency of either party has visited all of the 50 States of this country. [Cheers and applause.] And I think that is the way it should be. I think that the time is past when either party or any candidate should take this State or that State for granted or concede this State or that State to the opposition. [Cheers and applause.] As far as I am concerned, North, East, West, or South, it's all part of America and a candidate for the Presidency should go to every State so that he knows what America is all about - and that's why I'm here. [Cheers and applause.] I want to say to Lee McKinley and Ron Rettig and our other candidates that I'm delighted to be here with you and to give you my support, and to this audience I want to say that we have a couple of meetings left tomorrow in which we return to Wisconsin, to Detroit, where we have a 4-hour telethon - some of you may be able to catch it up here - and then we go on to Chicago for an election eve broadcast, and then finish in San Bernardino tomorrow evening at midnight. We're finishing, in other words, with a little sprint, because that is going to win this election on November 8. [Cheers and applause.] But what I want to say to you is that we have had literally hundreds of meetings in all of the 50 States. We've had very enthusiastic welcomes. We have had large crowds, some larger than this, because auditoriums were larger, but I think I want all of you to know that in no States have we had a warmer welcome or a more enthusiastic welcome or a more spontaneous welcome than right here in Alaska. [Cheers and applause.] You know, both Pat and I are westerners, as you know. She was born in Nevada and I was born in California. Very unusual to be born in California. Most people come there from other States, you know. But, in any event, being westerners, we have a feeling for this part of the country, and as we were driving in Pat said: "You know, I could really live here. I like the West." So, you've got one convert for Alaska already, I can assure you. [Cheers and applause.] Now, at this stage in the campaign all of you have heard a lot of issues discussed. My opponent has been here, and he's had some things to say - and I'll have some things to say about him. [Laughter.] But, in any event, I think this is an appropriate tine to talk about some of the problems of Alaska, but also to talk about the problems of the Nation and the world; and, in speaking of these problems, I would like to touch first on some of those that were raised so that we can keep the record straight. First, about our national defense: Everybody knows the tremendous importance that Alaska plays in our national defense plan. The DEW line has its major stations here. We also have heard some comments to the effect that as far as the administration is concerned our attitude toward the defenses that are here in Alaska is different and less enthusiastic than that of our opponents. Let's just get one thing straight. There is no question at ail about my attitude with regard to national defense. After all, I know Mr. Khrushchev. I know the Communists, and I will see to it that the United States remains the strongest nation in the world - and Alaska will play its part in maintaining that strength. [Cheers and applause.] And I get a little bit tired of having people run around the country saying ; Well, we're going to do this or do that that is detrimental, and then go to other parts of the country and make promises which eventually catch up with them; but all that I can say is on this score, on the score of national defense, on the part that Alaska plays, I have issued a statement for release here which sets forth my position in detail, and I emphasize it by pay remarks on this television program and to this audience. The second point that I want to make I have also issued a statement on. I want to touch on it briefly. That is with regard to the development of the great resources of the State of Alaska. When my opponent was here, he made what I think was one of the most irresponsible statements ever made by a candidate for the President in the history of this country. He said, and I quote, "that if the Russians had kept Alaska, Rampart Canyon Dam might have been built by this time or would have been built." I'll tell you why that is irresponsible. First of all, that's an insult to the people of Alaska. The people of Alaska want Rampart Canyon Dam, but they don't want the Russians running Alaska either. [Cheers and applause.] And, second, of course, it's an insult to the intelligence of the American people because this talk to the effect that this administration has not and does not support reclamation is simply nonsense. We find that we have had the greatest amount expended for reclamation in this administration of any in history. We find that one-third of all the dollars invested in reclamation has been invested in this administration. We find that there have been 30 percent more new starts in the Eisenhower administration than in the Truman administration. I can assure you that, as far as I am concerned, I, being a westerner, being from California, have always voted for, have always supported, reclamation projects. My opponent cannot say that. He's a "Jackie-come-lately," and I'm not, and I think you know that, and that's where I stand. [Cheers and applause.] As far as Rampart Canyon Dam is concerned, certainly you can expect progress, more progress, I believe, in our administration than his, because it's always the same old story. They make the promises, but we produce on the promises that they make - and that's what we want. [Cheers and applause.] Now, a third point that I want to make has to do with that development of this great State. You know, the easy thing to do is to come to a State like this and say to you: The Federal Government is going to take over all of your problems. The Federal Government is going to promise you this, that, and the other thing. As a matter of facts it's rather interesting that when we look at this campaign it's had a rather amusing twist in a sense because, as you notice, the slogan that our opposition is using: "Kennedy is the remedy." Well, you know, that's like the old medicine man who used to come to town - the same remedy for everything - spend more money - and that's your money. [Cheers and applause.] Now, the difference was, you know, that the medicine man had the same remedy - different labels on the bottle - it would cure snake bite or "rheumatiz" or anything else, but it really didn't do it; and the difference was the medicine man always got out of town just before the people caught up with the fact, that the remedy didn't work. The trouble in the ease of Mr. Kennedy - he didn't get out of town soon enough, and the people are going to find it out on November 8. [Cheers and applause.] But again as a westerner, and as one who knows something about the development of the resources of the West, let me make a statement with regard to the potentialities in the field of petroleum exploration in this great new State. This is at stake in this campaign. Within the platform adopted at Los Angeles by our opposition was a clause, a statement, with regard to the depletion allowance. Ever since that time they've been trying to get off it, but they insist on the fact that as far as they're concerned they're going to study it. Now, let me say as far the depletion allowance is concerned - to the average person, to the person in an audience, it doesn't seem particularly important. I've had people say to me: "Why do you ever discuss it? Who cares, except a few rich oil men?" My friends, if you want to develop the oil resources of Alaska or of any other State, the way to do it is to encourage not only the big companies, but the little companies, the "wildcatters," to get out and explore - and if you reduce the depletion allowance, which our opponents would do, you would stifle the very development that you want. He takes a hedging position on this. I'm for retaining it. Why? Because I want to develop the resources of Alaska and of America, and I think my position is right and his is wrong - and I'm sure the people of Alaska agree on that point. [Cheers and applause.] As a matter of fact, there's really nothing that better shows the difference between us than this particular point. The difference is that I have a faith in individual enterprise. have faith in individual enterprise, because I have faith in the American people. We have heard a lot of talk about new frontiers, and this is one of the great new frontiers of America; but, my friends, when we consider how the frontiers of America were conquered, let's remember: They weren't conquered by government. They were conquered by people who were given a chance by their government, an opportunity, and that is the way to greatness for America, and it is the way I stand for, and I'm sure the way the people of Alaska believe in as far as this campaign is concerned. [Cheers and applause.] And, so, I do not come before you and say the Government is going to take all responsibility away from you. I do not come before you and say the Government is going to solve all the problems of this country and of the families that you have and the like. I do say Government has responsibility in education; Government has responsibility in science; Government has responsibility in reclamation, in all these other fields - but I say that if we are going to develop our resources to the full in this country, we must remember that it will come not primarily through what Government does, but what 180 million individual Americans are encouraged to do by their Government. This is the difference in philosophy, and I'm sure again that the frontiersmen of Alaska appreciate that point. [Cheers and applause.] Could I take you now into the future for a moment, into the future with regard to perhaps one of the most exciting developments in the history of man, and certainly the most exciting development from a peacetime standpoint in the history of the United States in this century ? I made a speech which may have been covered to an extent here - I'm sure it was; possibly it was not brought to your attention - in Toledo, Ohio, a few weeks ago. It was about Plowshare. Plowshare is a great project for the peaceful use of atomic energy. Now, we cannot develop Plowshare unless we break the stalemate that now exists with regard to the testing of atomic devices. As all of you know at the present time we are having negotiations with the Soviet Union as to whether or not we can develop a foolproof inspection system which will enable us to stop testing for military purposes; but at the very time we are stopping testing for military purposes, we also are making no tests for peaceful purposes. Now, what we're talking about here is with regard to tests underground - they involve no fallout, no danger whatever - but they do involve breaking into new areas of knowledge that man has never entered before. What will Operation Plowshare do? Here are some of the exciting possibilities, and no State in this Nation plays a more important part in these plans. We can develop atomic dynamite, atomic dynamite, for example, which will move whole mountains, something that could never be dreamed of before, that will develop resources that we have never perhaps ever had the chance to develop before, because the cost was too great. We can develop the possibilities of building great new harbors and canals. For example, I have seen figures with regard to the digging of a second canal in Panama - as you know, there are some plans for that - and this second canal could be built with the new nuclear devices, which can be tested underground at half the cost that it cost originally to build the Panama Canal. And: so, here we have a new development, a new development that will mean tremendous amounts of progress for Alaska and for the Nation and for the world. That's one of the reasons why I have indicated in this speech that one of my first actions, should we succeed in this election, will be to send my colleague, Cabot Lodge - and may I say that he, I believe, without question, has lead more experience and has done a better job fighting for the cause of peace and freedom than anybody could have done in the United Nations in these last 7½ years - that's why I intend to send him to Geneva, for the purpose of breaking the bottleneck and so that the United States can go forward on the development of Project Plowshare. [Cheers and applause.] I tell you this because this is real progress. This is the kind of progress that will spell tremendous development for this great new State, and it is the kind of progress that I will work for. It's the kind of progress that you want. Let me go to one other point, one other point which is of particular concern, I am sure, to the people of this State, a point that I have made in every State that I have visited, and one that I am sure you are concerned about. You are closest to the Soviet Union, of course, of any of our States. You, therefore, have an even greater stake, if that is possible, in developing programs that will keep the peace than our other States may have. You will be a first target. There is no question about that. And, so, as I have said to audience after audience, and I repeat it here, the major test that we must apply in electing the neat President of the United States is: Which of the two candidates has the experience, the judgment and the background to keep the peace, to keep it without surrender, and extend freedom, and extend it without war? Nothing is more important than this. After all, we can have the best jobs and the best schools and the best social security and the best housing we can imagine, and it isn't going to make any difference if we aren't around to enjoy it. And, so, I say keeping the peace is the major issue of this campaign. It is the major test to which you must put us. [Cheers and applause.] Now, let us get it very straight what I am talking about. This is not a question of who is for peace. Everybody's for peace. It isn't a question of who is against communism. We're all against communism. The question is: Who has the experience? Who has the judgment? Who has the background to do the job? And on that point [cheers and applause] - on that point, rather than taking the man from the audience, I'm going to let you judge yourselves. [Cheers and applause.] What does peace demand? What does it demand in these critical times? Well, first of all, let us look at the qualifications of our ticket and of our opponents'. First, looking to us, Cabot Lodge and I have had a unique experience. For 7½ years we have sat in the high councils of this administration, in the Cabinet and the Security Council. We have participated in every discussion leading to the great decisions that have been made in the field of foreign policy. We both know Mr. Khrushchev. We both have talked with him at the council table. We have not been taken in by him. I don't think we ever will be. We bring to the American people that experience, and we offer it. Now, my opponent says that experience is worthless. He says it is worthless because - and I quote him - "the Eisenhower years in the field of foreign policy have been years of defeat and retreat for America." My friends, the adjectives are all right, but he's got the wrong administration. It was the Truman administration. [Cheers and applause.] You see, it was in the Truman administration that we lost 600 million people to the Communists. It was in the Truman administration that, because of a fuzzy-minded, wooly-headed policy, we invited the Communists into Korea and 140,000 Americans were casualties. It was in the Truman administration that we got this country into a mess, and it was the Eisenhower leadership that got us out of a mess, ended that war, and has kept us out of other wars - and we want to continue that kind of leadership in the years ahead. [Cheers and applause.] Now, what are the credentials that our opponents offer? Well, you've had three tests in this campaign, and, incidentally, one of the purposes of a campaign is to test the candidates. I can testify they're hard, hard to travel 50 States, hard to speak day after day, to go on television as I did earlier today and then to speak at night, but, usually, as I will tomorrow, speaking once in the morning, then at noon, 4 hours on a telethon, and then at night - this is hard, and how you stand up in a campaign, the kind of answers you give, whether you have the judgment, shows how you will react if you should ever have the most awesome responsibility that the world has ever seen, the Presidency of the United States. Three times my opponent has had that opportunity in this campaign, and three times he struck out. One: On Quemoy and Matsu. You recall, if you listened to our television debates, that this was a major point of issue. He took a minority view, a view held by only 12 Senators. A majority of the Democrats and Republicans were against him in 1955, in indicating that if he had been President, then he would have made the same mistake that was made with Korea. He would have drawn a line around these two islands of freedom in the Pacific and said, in effect, to the Communists, "Come and get them," said it because he wanted peace. President Eisenhower declined to do that. The Senate agreed with him. The Senate gave the President the right to defend these islands. Why? Because he knew from history that when you're dealing with a dictator, the way to war is to surrender at the gun point and the way to peace is to stand firm against. the blackmail of whether it is a Hitler or a Stalin or a Khrushchev. And, so, in this instance, President Eisenhower was right. Why was he right? History proves it. For 5 years we have kept the peace in the Pacific, and, so, again the question arises: What would have happened if he had been President? He would have drawn a line. What might have happened? The Communists might have come in. What might have happened then? We might have been in war. The second point: The Paris Conference in June. Here again a real test. Here again he differed with the President. The President, as you recall, went to that Conference; the hopes for peace, for negotiations on Berlin and the other crises before the world were very great, and then Khrushchev broke it up. He said he broke it up over the U-2 flights which the President had ordered to defend the United States against surprise attack, but that wasn't the reason. I know Khrushchev, and Khrushchev knew about the U-2 flights long before that. No, Khrushchev wanted a reason to break up the Conference and a reason to keep the President from going on a return trip to the Soviet Union, and he seized on this particular incident as the reason, and then when he got to the Conference, he shook his fist under the chin of the President of the United States and said: Apologize; express regrets for these flights. At the very time he was saying that Communist espionage agents were being picked up in the United States of America. And, so, with that the President refused to apologize. Incidentally, may I say, that Khrushchev used language on that occasion that was so crude, so vulgar that the translator, and I talked to him, couldn't even and wouldn't translate it and it never got into print. So, the President - what did he do? Well, first, he didn't lose his temper, as a President must not ever lose his temper. He kept his dignity, and may I say this: This is essential. A President must always be firm, but never belligerent. You never get down to the level of a man like Khrushchev. When you're right, when you're confident of your right, you maintain the dignity of your office and of your country as President Eisenhower did. [Cheers and applause.] But here again my opponent didn't agree. He said President Eisenhower could have apologized; he could have expressed regrets. What would have happened if he had? Why, Khrushchev would have ground him up like hamburger. I can tell you that, knowing this man, the moment you make a concession, the moment you give in to that kind of blackmail, it only encourages him to stomp on you, and here again I say: This is how he would have acted had he been President. And then third, the incident on Cuba; again a point of issue in our debate. Here it was shooting from the hip, but missing the mark, the President taking the correct position of quarantining Mr. Castro, quarantining him by economic and political means, and Mr. Kennedy then saying this isn't enough, we've got to go further and then making the outrageous suggestion that the Government of the United States should intervene directly - and that's the way it was interpreted all over the world - into Cuba. This would have invited the Communists in, probably resulted in civil war or world war. Certainly these were the possibilities. All three points during the course of this campaign. These are the areas that test a man. Now, I realize that there are those who say: But, Mr. Nixon, Mr. Kennedy changed his mind. He says now that he supports the President on Quemoy and Matsu. He says now that he didn't really mean that the President should have apologized, only that he could have. He says now that as far as Cuba was concerned, he always meant all along that he simply felt that we should give moral support to the cause of freedom, which, of course, is what the President has been doing all along. But, my friends, let me just say one thing: When you're a candidate, you can make a statement, it can be wrong, you can take it back the next day and nobody is the worse for the wear; but, my friends, when you're President, it's for keeps. When you speak, when you act, you can't take it back. I've been there. I was there the day we went into Lebanon. I remember the President on a Monday morning very early pacing, the floor in the oval office of the White House, finally making up his mind, turning and saying, Well, we've got to send the boys in. He knew that it risked war to send them in. But he knew that it was a certainty, perhaps, that we would have war if we didn't send them in, because the Communists would have swept down through the Middle East. The decision was right. That's why on 10 different occasions that I can recall the President wisely, calmly, always the coolest man in the room has made decisions that avoided war on the one side or surrender on the other; but if he had made a mistake, you see what the stakes were. And, so, the question before the American people is this: I cannot promise you perfection. I cannot promise you the standard the President has set. I can only promise you that I have been through the fire of decision. I can only say to you that I know what the problems are. I know Mr. Khrushchev. I can only say that, because of that experience, I would tend not to make mistakes that would be due to rashness or impulsiveness or inexperience - and you have the record of my opponent. With regard to him, I will say what I have said previously, and I think it should be said in this State. I do not think we can use the White House as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the American people. [Cheers and applause.] My final point: I would not want to come to this great State and to conclude my remarks simply on the note of controversy that I have raised. Controversy is essential in a campaign, particularly in the last days. You've got to know where I stand, were my opponent stands, so you can make an intelligent choice. But, my friends, above everything else, as I speak in this great new State, I want to leave with you a feeling of faith I have about the future, about the future of America, about the future of the cause of freedom, about the future of the cause of peace. I spoke about it earlier today on television. I will summarize my own views to this great audience listening in Alaska here and on television tonight. There are those who say: We live in a grim world, a world with a sword of Damocles hanging over our head, a world in which we're going to have troubles, and wouldn't it be wonderful if we could go back to other times. And my answer is: No; it wouldn't. My answer is: Yes; the problems we confront are terrible, terrible as statesmanship fails. But the possibilities, the possibilities for exciting progress, such as man has never had before, are so great that this is the best time that men and women could ever live. I'll tell you why. Abraham Lincoln had a favorite story, or at least it is one that is one of my favorites of his. One day he was walking down the street with his two boys, and they were arguing vigorously with each other and a neighbor called out to him, and he said: Abe, what's the trouble with the boys? And Abraham Lincoln's answer was: The same thing that troubles the world. I have three walnuts and each boy wants two of them. Now, my friends, what has that got to do with the future of America and the world? From the time civilization began, people have dreamed of the time when there would be enough to go around, and wars have been fought throughout history because there was not enough to go around, not enough food, not enough resources, not enough for all the people on this earth. Today, because of the breakthroughs of our scientists because of the breakthroughs insofar as productivity of the soil is concerned, for the first time in human history, we have the power in our hands to feed and clothe and house all the people on this earth if we just use the resources for peace and not for war - and that is the responsibility - that is the challenge - that America faces today, because unless America and the American people are worthy of this challenge, unless we lead the forces of freedom and peace, we will fail, and we will go down, go down in war or surrender, or worse. My friends, I say that we're not going to fail. I say it because I have seen America, and I have confidence that our people are ready for the challenge, to give the world the moral and spiritual leadership that it needs in these critical times, and that's more important than our military strength and our economic wealth combined. The things we believe in - our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men - these are the things that make America honored in the world today. Also, may I say to you that I am confident that we will win because I have seen the world and the people of the world on both sides of the Iron Curtain - the Russians, the Poles, the Chinese - they want peace. They want freedom. They prefer to turn that way. All they need is the leadership which we and our friends and allies in the world can and must give. And, so, I say to you as I close my remarks in this 50th State of the Union that, yes, we have problems, problems where inexperience or rashness or impulsiveness could get us into war or could result in surrender of principle or territory, but we have opportunities, the greatest that ever could be imagined in the history of man, opportunities where, with the right kind of leadership from America, we can win the battle against poverty and misery and disease and tyranny all over the world. That's what I want to fight for, and that's why I ask Democrats, Republicans, and independents in the State of Alaska - I say: Think not of your party. Think of America. If you believe that Cabot Lodge and I can give the kind of leadership I have just described, then we ask for your votes, for your work, for your prayers. Thank you. [Cheers and applause.]
Of all the questions that our citizens ask about a candidate for the office of President, I feel that. the most important is this: Does he have a deep-seated concern for the welfare of his fellow human beings? I was brought up in a family where it was necessary for us to be concerned about food, clothing, shelter, jobs, education, and medical bills for ourselves. From my earliest days, however, we were taught that we must also have a concern for the needs of others. This meant that we had an obligation to do something about meeting those needs. It is in that spirit that I would discharge the responsibilities of the Presidency. In this statement I am addressing myself specifically to those responsibilities that relate to the areas of health, education, and welfare. How has my opponent dealt with the issues in these areas? First of all he has deliberately distorted the record. He has stated, for example, that I am opposed to medical care for the aged and Federal aid to education. In so doing he has permitted his desire to be President to stand in the way of the truth. Second, he has supported programs that have been rejected by a Congress that had a 2-to-1 Democratic majority. In so doing he is trifling with human needs. Those who are in need are entitled to action rather than empty promises. Here is the way I approach the human needs of our Nation I have a deep-seated concern, for example, for our senior citizens and the members of their families as they face the problem of meeting heavy medical expenses. Because of some of my own family experiences, I understand the nature of the burden that is being carried by so many of our senior citizens. I am convinced that the Federal Government must help our senior citizens deal with this problem. We cannot dismiss the problem by saying that the aged can be cared for through public assistance. Most of them, and properly so, want to avoid being completely dependent on the Government. Nor can we dismiss this problem by saying that senior citizens can obtain protection under private health insurance programs. I know that many of them with low incomes find it impossible to participate in such programs. I believe, therefore, that the Federal Government must act in this area. I favor a voluntary program that would be open to all persons 65 and over of moderate means. I favor a program that would enable senior citizens to obtain substantial benefits under a State-administered health insurance plan or that would help them purchase private insurance. My opponent advocates a compulsory Federal health insurance program open only to persons 68 and over who are under social security. His plan would include the wealthy as well as the needy. On the other hand, his plan would exclude at least 3 million senior citizens with incomes of $2,000 or less. My opponent's plan was defeated in the Ways and Means Committee of the House of Representatives, in the Senate Finance Committee and on the floor of the Senate. It will be defeated every time it is put to a vote. Why? Because the Members of Congress know that our citizens do not want to start down the path of a compulsory governmental health insurance program. They know that if they start down such a path it could lead to socialization of all of our health services. The plan that I back will make available to senior citizens of moderate means more substantial benefits than my opponent's plan. As President I am confident that I can rally the support that will insure its passage by the Congress. Likewise I have a deep-seated concern for providing our children and young people with adequate educational opportunities. My opponent says that I am opposed to Federal aid to education. Actually I favor a comprehensive program of Federal aid to children: I favor it because I believe that such assistance is essential if our Nation is to take full advantage of its educational opportunities. In the field of elementary and secondary education, I advocate a program of substantial Federal matching grants to our States. Under my program, the local school districts could use these funds to pay principal and interest on debts that have been or may be incurred for the construction of classrooms, and also to help cover the cost of classrooms that are being erected on a pay-as-you-go basis. This will release funds that otherwise would have to be used on construction items so that they can be used to increase the salaries of our teachers, This I regard as our No. 1 problem in the field of education. My program will also reduce sharply our existing classroom shortages: My opponent favors a program under which Federal funds would be made available for the current operating budgets of local school districts. Our citizens know that his program could lead to Federal control of what is taught in the classroom. That is why it hasn't passed the Congress. That is why, in my judgment, it never will pass the Congress. My program achieves all of the objectives of any opponent's program without running the risk of Federal control. Therefore, my program will get the support that is needed in order to obtain approval by the Congress. Here again I am offering action. My opponent is offering promises that he knows he cannot fulfill. What about higher education? There will be a million more students on our campuses in the fall of 1964 than there were in the fall of 1959. They will not receive the education to which they are entitled unless the Federal Government helps to speed up the construction of the necessary buildings. I favor a program of substantial Federal assistance to our public and private colleges and universities in the form of loans at low rates of interest and also in the form of matching grants. In addition, I believe that the Federal Government must do more than it is now doing to overcome economic obstacles that stand in the way of .many of our young people attending our colleges and universities. I know of no more indefensible waste of human resources. I believe, therefore, that the Congress should extend and expand our present student loan program. I also believe that Federal matching grants should be made available to the States to enable them to offer a limited number of scholarships based on merit and need. But these two programs alone do not go far enough. The time has come for the Federal Government to show concern for the literally millions of parents who make sacrifices in order to enable their children to have the benefits of higher education. For these people I propose to urge the Congress to provide tax credits or deductions for tuition payments and other expenses incurred in connection with higher education. In this manner the Federal Government will be helping our people who help themselves.  This total program for Federal aid to higher education is the most comprehensive one that has been proposed to date. My opponent has refused to say how he stands on it. I also have a deep-seated concern for the health of our people. There is no question in my mind but that we must continue to increase our investment of Federal and private funds in medical research. I am prepared to back a comprehensive program along this line. I believe that such a program will lead to breakthroughs in such areas as cancer, heart disease, and mental illness. Investment of money, however, is not enough. We must also have available an increasing number of persons who are qualified not only to do research work but also to teach our medical schools and to apply the results of medical research. In order to achieve this objective, I have proposed that the Federal Government make matching grants available for the construction of teaching facilities in our medical schools. I have also advocated a program of medical fellowships under which the student would receive help and, in addition, the medical school that he attends would also be given assistance. I have made another proposal in the health area which I regard as very significant. Health insurance for citizens of all ages has made a major contribution to improve the quality of medical care. In order to accelerate the purchase of health insurance for catastrophic illnesses, I believe that we should be permitted to deduct for income-tax purposes the cost of premiums. Then there is our Federal-State program of vocational rehabilitation. Amazing progress has been made in this area under the leadership of President Eisenhower. The number of rehabilitated persons placed in jobs has increased from around 55,000 just a few years ago to 88,000 last year. It will exceed 90,000 this year. I believe that we must continue to increase the amount of both Federal and State funds for this program. I know of no program that is sponsored by government that makes better sense than this one. It replaces despair with hope in the lives of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. It means that persons who in many instances have been completely dependent on society once again become productive members of society. So far I have been talking with you about my concern for our fellow citizens. Concern for people, however, cannot be confined to our own Nation. I have a concern for all of the peoples of the world. I know that my fellow Americans share this concern. We must, in the great American tradition of concern for those less fortunate than we are, welcome the opportunity to work with people everywhere to help them achieve their aspirations for a life of human dignity. We must do this not merely to stop communism, not to help governments, but to help people - to help them attain the life they deserve. If I become President, I will do everything I can to provide leadership in this all-important area. At the center of our Judeo-Christian tradition is the commandments "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." This means that we should never pass up the opportunity to help our neighbors achieve their highest potential. If I become your President I will keep this commandment at the center of my thinking and planning. I will insist on the Federal Government keeping at the top of its list of priorities a deep-seated concern for human needs - both at home and abroad.
Good evening. May I first tell you how much I appreciate your giving me some of your precious Sunday night television time. I learned, it was about a week ago, when I was home and my 12 year-old daughter Julie said she was going to be glad when the campaign was over, so she could get back to some of her favorite programs, and particularly those of you who listen to "GE Theater" this hour, my special thanks. However, I do know that all of you recognize that the issues of this campaign are tremendously vital to every family in America, and tonight I want to discuss the most important issue, the most vital issue. It is the issue of how we keep the peace without surrender, how we extend freedom throughout the world. Nothing is more important than this. Nothing, I find, concerns Americans more in the 49 States I have visited up to this time in this campaign than this issue that I am going to discuss tonight. Now, in discussing it up to this time in the campaign, we have had primary emphasis on these aspects. First, I have indicated the necessity for the United States to be militarily strong enough that, regardless of what any potential enemy may have, if he should strike us with a surprise attack, we would have enough left that we could knock out his warmaking capability. This is necessary so that we can be the guardians of peace. I have also indicated that it is essential that the United States move ahead economically, move ahead so that we can retain the great advantage we presently have over the Soviet Union in the economic area. And then I have emphasized the necessity for a firm, but nonbelligerent diplomatic policy. In discussing diplomatic policy, I think we have learned from President Eisenhower the guidelines the next President should follow. The first one is that he must learn from history. That's why President Eisenhower did not draw a line excluding Quemoy and Matsu from our defense zone in the Pacific. He knew that was the mistake that led to the war in Korea. The second guideline that President Eisenhower has followed is that we must know our opponents or our enemies. That's why President Eisenhower refused to apologize or express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev, because he knew that if he did so, that it would not satisfy him, but it would only encourage him to ask and demand more. And the third guideline - and I think perhaps this is the most important in this critical time - is that the President of the United States must always be coolest in a crisis. He must never shoot from the hip. He must never be rash or impulsive. That's why President Eisenhower has followed a policy with regard to Cuba, of quarantining them diplomatically and economically, rather than a policy advocated by some of direct Government intervention in that country. The latter policy sounds good, but the President knew that if he did that, that he would lose, in effect, our allies and friends throughout the world. Now, as far as these three policies are concerned, our diplomatic policy, our military policy, and our economic policy, they are all essential if we are going to keep the peace, and keep it without surrender. But, my friends, they are not enough, and too often we assume that this is all that is required, if we are to accomplish this objective. They are not enough because all that we do with military strength and economic strength and diplomatic firmness is to hold the line, and we need more than that. The world needs more than that. America must give better leadership than that. We must not have this "sword of Damocles" hanging over our heads for the balance of our lives and our children's and our grandchildren's lives. So what can we do? What can we do to extend freedom throughout the world? What can we do really to build a peace in which men can live in safety, without the current fear that we all have of a nuclear disaster? It is to this point that I wish to direct my remarks tonight. First, I think it is essential for us to recognize what America really means to the world. Too often we have a tendency to think of America solely in terms of our great military strength and our economic and diplomatic 'policies. We forget that our Communist enemies also have military strength, they also boast of economic power, and of course they follow diplomatic policies to their suit. As far as we are concerned, it is essential that we emphasize the kind of strength that we have, that they do not have, and that is the moral and spiritual strength of America, that is the idealism of America. What are those ideals? They are the ideals that caught the imagination of the world 180 years ago in the American Revolution. America then was a weak country militarily, it was a poor country economically; but it was one of the strongest nations in the world in its appeal to peoples of the world, because America stood then for the right things. And today we stand for the right things, the great ideals that are bigger than America, that are as big as the whole world itself. What are those ideals? Our faith in God, our belief in the rights of men, our belief that the rights that men have to freedom and justice belong not just to us but to all men, and that those rights come not from men but from God and cannot be taken away by men. These ideals are what America stands for, these ideals are what we must emphasize in our foreign policy if we are to win the struggle for peace and freedom, if we are to launch and win effectively a great offensive for the minds and the hearts and the souls of men. And now, if I could discuss this problem in specific terms. Where is the battle taking place? First of all, we have the continents of Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Here a billion people live. These people hold the balance of power in the world. And great change is taking place in these areas, because the people of these areas want a better life; they are determined to have it, and they're entitled to have it. I have been to most of these countries, I know what these people believe deep in their hearts, and I am certainly convinced tonight that the United States and those who stand with us in the cause of peace and freedom can win - can win these uncommitted peoples in this part of the world. But we can win only if we emphasize our strength, and not simply the weakness that we may have. What do I mean by that? Here again, the tendency too often for the United States is to present our case in terms of our military strength and our economic power. The people of these countries are concerned about who is the strongest nation and who is the richest nation, but they are more concerned about what we believe in, what we believe in as far as they themselves are concerned. Let's look at what the Communists do. The Communists do not come to these countries as conquerers, but they come as liberators. They come as people offering progress. Of course, the cost of progress is freedom, but on the other hand they do not tell people that. That is oily the result of imposing a Communist dictatorship on these people. And so what should our reply be? Our reply must not be simply that we are stronger than the Communists militarily, that we are richer than they are. This is not enough. And our reply must not be, "Communism is evil, and you must not accept it," because, my friends, I can assure you that if the choice the people of these countries have is between communism and giving up their freedom, and staying where they are, they will take communism, because it will offer them progress. We must not leave them this terrible choice of no progress or taking communism. And again I say, it is not enough for us simply to say, "Well, we're going to help you, but we're going to help you only because we want to fight communism." These are proud peoples. They do not want to be pawns in a great struggle between the Communist world and the free world. And so what should the attitude of America be? What is the image we want to present to the peoples of the uncommitted countries? And here again we get back to the basic spiritual traditions of our great Nation. On this Sunday evening it is particularly appropriate to refer to those traditions. America throughout its history has cared for people throughout the world who were hungry, who were oppressed, who were denied freedom. And if there were no communism in the world, we would still care. And this is what we must convey to the people in these uncommitted countries, that we care and are concerned about the denial of freedom, that we care and are concerned, because they are hungry, because they are suffering from disease, and that we want to wage a great battle against disease and against hunger and against tyranny every place in the world, because those things are wrong in and of themselves, not simply because communism is an enemy whom we are fighting. It is this message that we must convey, and if we convey it in this part of the world there is no question which way they will turn. Oh, I know I've heard people say that the leader of this country or that country in Asia or Africa tends to turn toward communism rather than toward freedom; but I have learned in talking with them over and over again that they want to be on our side, they want to have freedom and progress. The trouble is that too often the choice is, stay where they are, no progress, or give up their freedom in order to get progress. And so again I say, let America and our friends who must help us from Europe and the other parts of the world in this grand venture - let us not leave to these people this terrible choice between staying where they are, in poverty, misery, and disease, or moving forward with communism. There is no question which way they will turn if we give them the choice that they deserve. Let me turn now to another aspect of this problem. Not only do we have the uncommitted areas of Asia and Africa and arts of Latin America, but we also have the satellite countries of astern Europe. And here we have a great tragedy - a great tragedy that has existed since World Par II. I know what this tragedy is, because I saw it in the eyes of a quarter of a million Poles when I visited there last year. I saw them with tears streaming down their cheeks, and they saw an American Vice President who was not famous to them, but who represented the hope of freedom, who represented ideals, faith in God, belief in the rights of men, as they saw an American Vice President ride through the streets of Warsaw, and I realized then that as far as these people are concerned, that there is no question that, even though they have had communism imposed upon them for now 15 years, that the hope of liberty, the hope of freedom still burns in their hearts. And this is true, I know, also in Hungary, because I was on the border of Andau at Austria, and I saw come across that line, young men, young women, workers, educators, students by the hundreds, and I knew that they were coming, because, even though they had been indoctrinated in communism, it had not taken, and, as far as they were concerned, they were willing to risk even death in order to come to a land of freedom, and so here we have these satellite countries all under the yoke of oppression. What do we do about them? What can we do? We cannot, of course, encourage revolution, because revolution would lead to war, which would destroy them and us and the whole world as well, but on the other hand, we can encourage them to keep alive the hope of freedom in their breasts. We can encourage the degrees of peaceful change. And, so, what we have to do here, it seems to me, is to expand the kind of exchange activities on which I participated on my visit to Poland. And tonight I have a proposal to make, one that I would hope would be made by whoever is the next President of the United States. It is very simply this: You will recall that Mr. Khrushchev came to the United States on a state visit. We showed him every courtesy. He visited every place he wanted to go, and he also returned to the United Nations meeting recently. You recall that at the summit conference he not only blew up the conference, but he withdrew the invitation of President Eisenhower to go to the Soviet Union. Now, possibly the reason that he did that, very probably the reason, I might say, was that he didn't want to subject the Russian people to President Eisenhower's great appeal to the peoples of the world, and in a small way, incidentally, I know why he felt that way - because even when I was in the Soviet Union in the heart of Siberia, in the Urals, thousands and thousands of Russian people were friendly, cheering an American Vice President. Now, what is the proposal, then? I would propose that neat year the American Government, the American President, invite to the United States the leader of each of the satellite countries on an official visit. I would propose that we extend to that leader every possible courtesy. Let him visit, as Mr. Khrushchev did, the places that he wants to visit in the United States. Now, in exchange for those visits, I would propose that we send our most distinguished Americans abroad. The first name that comes to mind is obviously President Eisenhower. I have consulted with him about this proposal. He has indicated that he would be willing to take a trip to the satellite countries under these circumstances. But he made a suggestion, a suggestion which I have heartily endorsed. He suggested so that this would be a bipartisan effort that not only he, but that two other former Presidents, President Hoover and President Truman, also be included among those to make such trips. Now, I realize that some Republicans who are listening tonight will not like the idea of my suggesting that Mr. Truman go on such trips, and I can imagine that some Democrats who are listening would not like the idea of Mr. Hoover going on such trips. But let me say, based on my own travels to Europe, this one thing that we must not forget: We have our differences at home, but abroad Herbert Hoover is honored as a man who has embarked on many missions of mercy, missions of mercy which have saved the lives of hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of people abroad. And Mr. Truman is honored because of the Marshall plan, the Marshall plan which I supported and which resulted in the rebuilding of Europe. And, so, I believe that this is a proposal which could be made. I would hope that our three former Presidents would approve it and if they would approve it, I think trips of this sort could have a very dramatic impact. Now, I know there has been a tendency to ridicule so-called visits of this type. They say what good does it do and some suggest that all that really amounts to anything at all in the world today is power. If we're just stronger than the other side, that this will be effective in assuring that we get the kind of a world that we want. But, my friends, what are you going to do with strength? What are you going to do with power in and of itself in order to liberate these countries? What we must realize is that if we are going to have peaceful competition, as Mr. Khrushchev has suggested, and as I believe we must have, it must be peaceful competition in ideas, as well as in factories. And I believe, too, that it must be peaceful competition which takes place on both sides of the Iron Curtain, not on just our side of the Iron Curtain. It must also be peaceful competition which takes place not only in those areas of materialism, which Mr. Khrushchev emphasizes, but in the great spiritual and moral values which are particularly our concern in the world today. And, so, this proposal I make tonight. I make it because I believe it can have a dramatic effect, a dramatic effect in keeping alive the hope of liberty, the hope of freedom, the hope for peace of the people in these satellite countries. Now, if I could turn to one further subject, I realize that in the closing days of this campaign that we all have a tendency to begin to line up on one side or the other and determine which candidate we're going to vote for. I would like to suggest tonight that, as we make that decision, that it be made solely on the basis of which of the two candidates for the Presidency can best lead America and the free world in this critical period. It cannot and should not be made simply on the basis of the party label that my opponent or I happen to wear. It cannot and should not be made simply on the basis of how your grandfather voted or how somebody else tells you to vote. We need from the American people - we need from them the most intelligent decision they can possibly make, because America and the free world needs the best leader that either party can produce. And might I also suggest that this decision cannot be made on the basis of any collateral issue. I think it's particularly appropriate, for example, on a Sunday evening, to say what I have said previously with regard to religion in this campaign. There is no legitimate religious issue in this campaign. There is none because both Senator Kennedy and I are men who have a deep religious faith. We differ as far as our faiths are concerned, but we both have faith in God. And, as I said before the American Association of Newspaper Editors, there would be a legitimate religious issue in an American campaign only if one of the candidates had no religious faith. Incidentally, after I made that statement, I was criticized in some quarters on the ground that: After all, the Constitution did not require that any person have a religious faith in order to serve in an elective or appointive office. That is true, but it is and would be an issue if a candidate for the Presidency did not have religious faith, in my opinion, because, as I have emphasized throughout this talk tonight, whoever leads America., whoever leads the free world, must not only lead her from the standpoint of military strength and economic strength; above everything else, he must emphasize the spiritual and moral strength of America. And on that score there can be no difference between Senator Kennedy and myself. And so I urge all of you who are listening, and Senator Kennedy has urged you, you should vote for neither me nor him on the basis of the religion that we may have. We need the best man that America can produce, regardless of his party label, regardless of his religion, regardless of any other factor. I would also like to add a word of faith about the future. We have had so much discussion during this campaign about the terrors that would come, and they would be terrors, of course, from an atomic war; we have heard so much discussion about the necessity of standing up to Khrushchev and the Communist leaders; we have heard so much discussion about the kind of policies that we need militarily and economically and diplomatically that I think sometimes the American people may have a tendency to conclude that we are not going to be able to succeed in this grand venture to keep the peace without surrender and to extend freedom without war. But, my friends, I have complete faith, complete confidence as this campaign nears its end that we will win in this great struggle. I have confidence, first because I have seen America. I have seen the American people, and those who say we have no sense of purpose, those who say that our people are more interested in tailfins and deodorants than they are in national purpose simply don't know what they're talking about. Ours are a great people. We are for peace. We have fought three wars and have got nothing at all out of those wars except the right to keep our freedom and our independence, and after each of those wars we have been generous. We have helped not only our allies, but our former enemies to restore themselves. I would also like to say that in that connection I find that the American people are generous, too, as they think of their responsibilities in the world today. The American people want to meet those responsibilities. They recognize that we have a divine destiny, that that destiny is not simply to hold our own, not simply to keep freedom for ourselves, but to extend freedom throughout the world. And, my friends, I also have faith that we're going to win this struggle because I have seen the world. I remember a conversation I had in 1953 with one of the wisest men I ever met - Raja Kapalajari, the Chief Minister of Madras in India. As he talked to me - he was a great friend of Ghandi's incidentally - he said: Mr. Nixon, there is no question about the outcome of this struggle, because communism is contrary to the nature of man. Man needs God. Communism needs God. Man needs freedom, and communism denies freedom. He says the only question is whether the forces of freedom are adequately led and whether the people who have freedom recognize their responsibilities. He was right. An then, too, I remember a conversation that I had, a conversation which took place in the Hong Kong colony on that same trip in 1953. My wife and I were traveling through the suburbs of Hong Kong. We saw a school in which there was a recess at the time with the children on the playground. We stopped our car. We talked to some of the children. They swarmed around us. We had a fine time, and as we were about to leave. I talked to the principal of this school who was the teacher of English in the school, and I said to him: I want to extend to you and to all of the people in this school the very best wishes of all of the American people to all the people of China. I could see that he was deeply moved because he knew that the Communist Chinese Government had been responsible for killing thousands of Americans in Korea. And this was his response. He said: Mr. Vice President, I thank you for that sentiment, and I am confident that the day will come when our two peoples will again live together in peace and friendship, because, he said, we must never forget we are all brothers in our hearts. He was right, and because he was right, and because freedom lives in Poland, in China, in Russia, there is no question that we, who stand for freedom, we who believe in freedom, will win the struggle for the world, and win it without war, so that all men can live in peace and freedom and justice. Thank you very much.
Here in California a few days ago Senator Kennedy proposed the establishment of a so-called peace corps. In doing so he was appealing to one of the higher aspirations of our Nation - that of serving not ourselves alone, but also the peoples of other nations. But the plan he proposed for achieving this objective is superficial and obviously concocted solely for campaign purposes. If put into effect it would be harmful both to the Selective Service and to those so ably representing the U.S. abroad. The proposal he makes is to say in effect to young men who are eligible for the draft, "if you will volunteer for a peace corps you can evade your obligations under the Selective Service and Training Act." Thus he proposes to undermine our Selective Service System by providing an "escape hatch" for those who do not want to serve in the Armed Forces. This would ultimately bring the whole system into disrepute. It would set up an "elite" corps who would be excused from military duties. This would be a class distinction completely alien to our heritage - a class distinction that would cause great resentment. Insofar as serving the peoples of other nations is concerned he proposes to send America's representatives to other nations young men, whom he calls volunteers but who, in truth in many instances would be trying to escape the draft. Instead of sending to these nations young men and women who are genuinely eager to dedicate their lives to the service of others, Mr. Kennedy would cater to draft evasion. He would develop a "cult of escapism." Here is another example of Mr. Kennedy's fast and flashy technique of proposing a program that looks good on the surface - but which is inherently dangerous. The Presidency is no place for a man who acts first and thinks later. I favor having the Federal Government take vigorous action to recruit an increasing number of our people, young and not so young, who are willing to serve in underdeveloped countries. We need men and women who have a sense of mission - men and women who are committed to the objective of helping other peoples to achieve their highest potential. It would be a tragic mistake to include those whose primary objective is to escape the draft. One of the first orders of business for me after January 20, 1961, would be to forward to the Congress a series of recommendations that would increase the effectiveness of our recruiting programs for service abroad, provide more adequate training facilities for those going abroad, and provide improved incentives for making a career out of such service. Our people will respond to such a program. Certainly we do not have to wreck our whole concept of a sound Selective Service System and place alongside our dedicated career Foreign Service persons evading the draft in order to carry the fight for freedom and peace into the underdeveloped nations.
Mr. President, Ambassador Lodge, and my fellow Americans, 8 years ago I had the privilege of appearing with the President of the United States in Boston, Mass., on an election eve broadcast like this one. Many things have happened in those 8 years, some of which have been recounted by the President tonight; and as I sit here again in Chicago, in this studio, I realize that we have had a long journey which began on July 28 of this year in Chicago after our nominating convention. It was a journey which took my wife, Pat, and me to all the 50 States of this Nation. It was a journey which enabled us to know people, hundreds of thousands of them, in those States, to know the American people, their problems, their concerns. And now tonight I have the opportunity to speak to millions of you through television and radio. This campaign has been a historic one, historic from the standpoint that I have just mentioned. This is the first time that any candidate has ever visited 50 States. Of course, President Eisenhower couldn't have done that because we only had 48 at the time of his two campaigns. I hope in the years to come that the candidates of both our major parties will visit all of the 50 States because I have found in this campaign that this is truly one nation and that whoever is going to be President must know all the people of all the States, and you can know them only by visiting them. Also, as I look back on this campaign, I think we will agree that it is historic from another standpoint. This is the first time in American history that two candidates for President have met face to face in debate. You will recall four times we met, and the people of this country in greater numbers than have ever viewed candidates before had an opportunity to see them, hear them debate the issues of the campaign. I would say also, based on what I have seen, of what I have done and what my opponent has done in the way of travel and appearances in this campaign, that probably we have spoken to more people than any two candidates have ever spoken to in the history of American politics. Consequently, I rather believe that all agree with the decision that I have made. I do know that any useful purpose could be served by my reducing the issues that have gone over so many times in your homes and television or in the various meetings which you may have attended in the States which you or I have visited. I think tonight rather I should like to talk to you in terms of the decisions you will make, in terms of what it means, in terms of how I feel I should decide the fate of America and the world, because this is the truly fateful decision. President Eisenhower has brought that out in his remarks as Ambassador Lodge has done likewise; a fateful decision because the future not only of the United States is involved but of the whole free world. I know the responsibilities that a President has; I know them not from having had them, but I know them from having had the opportunity, an opportunity shared by Cabot Lodge of seeing the President of the United States make great decisions. I know that after our meetings in the National Security Council in the Cabinet that often when he has been urged to make a decision at the moment he has stopped the discussion and has said very quietly, "I don't think we should shoot from the hip on this one. I think I should think about it." And then alone he has walked from the Cabinet room into the oval office which is the President's office and there quietly by himself he has weighed all the considerations and then made the decision which he thought was best for America and for the world. The fact that we have ended one war, avoided other' wars, the fact that we kept the peace without surrender, the fact that we have had great progress, the greatest in any administration in history has been due to the fact that our President has been a wise man, a man who has not shot from the hip, a man who has weighed all these great considerations before he has made the decision that really has such impact, not only on America, but on the world. And so knowing the awesome responsibility of the man who will be the next President of the United States I would like for you to have in mind these standards that I think all of us as Americans should consider as we vote tomorrow First, because the next President of the United States will have in his hands the future not only of America but of the whole world, the future of our children and as the President so eloquently indicated our grandchildren as well and all of those to come after us, because he has this faithful power and responsibility in his hands I think it is essential that when we vote we not vote just according to the personality or not according to the party label or not according to any other affiliation that we may have but that we should vote for the man that we think best can serve America. And I ask all of those listening tonight to do that. If you happen to be members of my party and I happen to be a member of yours that is not enough reason simply to vote for me. It also is not enough reason to vote for my opponent. We need the best man that both parties or either party can present to the country in this critical period. We have had many great Presidents in our Nation's history, some of them have been Republicans, some of them have been Democrats. Some way the American people have known what the times require, and I urge you on this occasion: Put America first rather than party or any other consideration first. Also, as you vote I think it is essential for all of you to bear in mind that this must be not a decision of just a few; not a decision of just a minority of Americans, but of a majority of the American people. In other words, let this be the voice of all Americans speaking, and therefore I urge everyone listening to me tonight: whether you vote for me or against me, you must go to the polls tomorrow. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your country, so that the decision that is made is one that represents the best thinking of the American people as a whole rather than as a part. Nothing less is worthy of America and the responsibilities that we have. And now, finally, having urged you to have these to consider in mind may I add a personal note, it is predicated in his remarks that it would be the last time that he would be making a political address as President of the United States and I am sure you realized that this for me too is a last time, the last time that I will be speaking to the American people by television and radio as Vice President of the United States, and I would not want this opportunity to pass without expressing my deep appreciation and the appreciation of my wife, my children, for the honor that you have given us to serve as the Vice President of the United States over these past 8 years. I want to tell you what it has meant to us; it has given us the opportunity to travel to many lands abroad, to learn to know the leaders and people of those lands, to represent the people and the President of the United States on those trips. It has given us an opportunity to travel within the United States of America, to know the people of this country, to learn, for example, that those who say that the American people are aimless, that they are drifting, that they have no sense of purpose are dead wrong, to learn that the American people are a people with high ideals, with deep religious faiths, a people who are ready, in my opinion, to assume the great responsibility which must be ours in this critical period in history; our responsibility not just to keep the peace for ourselves, but for all people; a responsibility not just to defend freedom for America, but to defend it for all peoples, and to extend it throughout the world without war. And, also, I have had another opportunity; an opportunity which the President has referred to. I have had the opportunity of serving under one of the truly great men of our times: Dwight D. Eisenhower. And, so, for these opportunities that you have provided, I express my deep appreciation as Vice President of this country. And finally, then, I conclude this election eve broadcast by again urging you go to the polls tomorrow and vote. Vote for the man that you think America and the world needs in this critical period. Whatever that decision is it is one that I know will be best for America. It is one that we will all abide by; one that we will all support, and my prayer and my hope, as we do go to the polls tomorrow, is very simply this, that the next President of this country, whoever he is, will be a worthy successor of Dwight D. Eisenhower and that he will be worthy of the high ideals and the great purpose of the American people. Thank you very much.
 This campaign has been a contest between substance and shadow. For nearly 8 weeks I have been tracing out constructive programs in many fields of public policy. 1. On September 8, I issued a statement on "The Scientific Revolution," including a program to advance American science and technology. 2. Eight days later, on September 16, at Guthrie Center, Iowa, I outlined Operation Consume, the first part of my program for agriculture, which would level down the mountains of surplus food now stored in Government warehouses. 3. Three days later, on September 19, in Scranton, Pa., I outlined my program for Federal aid to chronically depressed areas - a program which would aid communities that need help, avoiding the squandering of Federal funds, pork-barrel fashion, on communities not really in need. 4. Four days later on September 23, in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., I presented Operation Safeguard, the second part of my farm program, which would keep us from heaping up more price-depressing farm surpluses in the future. 5. Three days later, on September 26, I issued a position paper on "A National Program in Support of Education," which spelled out my plan for Federal assistance to primary and secondary schools and to colleges and universities - a plan which, while giving help, would not threaten American schoolchildren with Federal dictation of what they learn. 6. Two days later, on September 28, in Forest Hills, N.Y., I outlined a seven-point program to attack the problems posed by the growth of our metropolitan areas - a program which would, among other things, stimulate residential renewal and new housing. 7. Five days later, on October 3, I set forth a program to combat disease for the 1960's - a far-reaching proposal for expanded medical research and education. 8. Eight days later, on October 11, in San Diego, Calif., I announced the principles which I shall follow to keep the U.S. Defense Establishment what it is today - first in the world. 9. The following day, October 12, in Long Beach, Calif., I outlined my views on Government effort in the advancement of American aviation. 10. Two days later, on October 14, in Los Angeles, I outlined part of my approach to the formulation of foreign policy - a program which would include regional conferences, bringing together the leaders of government of all the free nations of Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia. 11. Six days later, On October 20, at New York University, I proposed a 12-point program for keeping the domestic economy of the United States the strongest in the world, vigorously growing and free in the decade ahead. 12. Five days later, on October 25, in Cincinnati, I set forth my program to keep this country first in the exploration of outer space. 13. The next day, October 26, in Toledo, I presented my program for negotiating with the Soviet Union on nuclear testing; and in the same speech I turned to Project Plowshare, a program For the peaceful use of nuclear energy which would carry forward in the sixties the magnificent human adventure launched by President Eisenhower in his historic speech before the United Nations on December 8, 1953. 14. Four days later, on October 30, I published a statement on conservation and natural resources, a paper which details at length my program for continuing the magnificent and unprecedented advances - in the tradition of Theodore Roosevelt - made during the Eisenhower years in the building of dams and reclamation projects, the conservation of fish and wildlife, the protection and improvement of national parks, and the installation of facilities for generating electric power. 15. The following day, October 31, I issued a paper on "A Program for Our Senior Citizens," a nine-point approach which would take us far toward solutions of their problems, particularly medical services. 16. Two days later, on November 1, in Philadelphia, I outlined my program for the liberalization of our immigration laws: a program to double our immigration quotas, to make unused portions of some countries' quotas available to countries with oversubscribed quotas, and to reunite long-separated family groups - sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, and aged parents - by passing a special law to admit such people without regard to quotas. 17. The following day at San Antonio, I stated my program for keeping the peace by maintaining America's military superiority so long as the struggle with communism requires. 18. The next day, November 3, in Houston, Tex., I presented my program to strengthen small business - a program which looks forward to helpful changes in our tax laws. 19. On Sunday evening, November 6, I presented to a national television audience my views on the ways in which we can carry the crusade for freedom throughout the world. These programs are now on record. Now, in contrast, what has Senator Kennedy proposed? To be sure, he has put out some programs. He voices his concern for the people and then advocates a Niagara of spending which would in the end either raise their taxes or prices, or both, and would cheapen their insurance policies, pensions, and social security. He has advanced a program for Latin America which would in the end make the United States a pariah in this hemisphere and could start a war. He issued a statement that he would defend the dollar, but it is meaningless in the light of his continued loyalty to the Los Angeles platform's spending programs and loose money declarations. He has come up with a notion for excusing young men from the draft in favor of vague service overseas. He has offered a monstrosity of a farm program that would straitjacket farm families, create unemployment, and raise food prices in the stores by 25 percent. He has offered a package of retreads. He has campaigned with negativism, failing the American people by refusing to lay out before them worthwhile programs in these major fields which for 2 months I have been discussing in frankness and in detail.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Bob Blackwell, and thank you here in this Ford Auditorium, for this wonderful welcome, to Pat, to me and, incidentally, for the first time in this campaign, my two daughters will hear me make a political speech. [Cheers and applause.] And it goes without saying that I welcome the opportunity to appear here in Detroit, to appear on television and radio with my colleagues who are candidates on our ticket here in the State of Michigan. There is much that I have said about them in my previous visits: I can only add this: At the national level Al Bentley and our candidates for Congress, George Meader and his colleagues, Bob Blackwell, are a splendid team. I support every one of them, and I urge you to vote for them on election day. [Cheers and applause.] And as far as the State of Michigan is concerned, I will say again what I have said over and over again on my visits here: that there is no State in the Union that needs a change more than the State of Michigan, and Paul Bagwell will give it to you. [Cheers and applause.] He, with his responsibility, with his forwardlooking, progressive program, will give Michigan the kind of leadership that will bring to this State the new industry that it has not been getting because it has been discouraged by the kind of leadership you've had, and I will only say, as far as the national level is concerned, and I know everybody will understand what I say here, we don't want to bring to Washington the kind of leadership you've been having here in Michigan. [Cheers and applause.] And, incidentally, we're not going to do it. I can tell you that. I have had the opportunity of now traveling to 50 States, the first candidate of either party in history to travel to 50 States, and in traveling to those 50 States - I just returned from Alaska this morning - I can tell you that in this last week a great tide is running in our direction. It's running our way, and we'll just keep it going. [Cheers and applause.] And the reason the tide is running in our direction is not just because Republicans are voting more enthusiastically than ever before, but that Democrats as well recognize that. they need to put the country above party in this election of 1960 at the national level. [Cheers and applause.] And, incidentally, this afternoon at a time I understand when this television program on which we are appearing will be running after this program, but this afternoon I am going to appear right here in Detroit on an unprecedented program, a 4-hour telethon for questions. My colleague, Cabot Lodge, will also be picked up for part of the program from Boston, and I want to say something to nail once and for all the hypocrisy of Los Angeles on the ticket. I'm always proud to appear with my colleague, any place - including Michigan - In the United States. [Cheers and applause.] And for those who are truly interested in civil rights, certainly they know that they have on our side a team that has always voted that way, a team that believes that way, a team that campaigns that way, North, East, West, and South, and that will bring progress that way. Why take a chance on a team that has a split personality and that will not bring the progress and only bring you promises? [Cheers and applause.] Now, on this last appearance of the campaign, the last formal speech of the campaign, right here in the city of Detroit, I think it is appropriate for me to discuss in the brief time that I have the most vital issue, the most important one. People often say: Mr. Nixon, you've been to 50 States. How are people different? What are they thinking about? And the answer is that on one issue everybody believes the same. Everybody says that the most important issue above everything else is what kind of leadership we can have that will keep the peace without surrender and extend freedom throughout the world. [Cheers and applause.] Why do people say this? Because they realize that in this great country of ours we can have progress, and we must and will; we can have jobs, and we must and will; we can have all the other things that make a good life, and it isn't going to make any difference if we have the nuclear disaster that would destroy civilization as we know it. And, so, in these quiet hours when people are making up their minds, I urge you, the voters of Michigan - I urge you, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents - for a few moments to think with me not in terms of party, not in terms of any other collateral issue, not in terms of what labels we may wear, not in terms of organizations to which we may belong or you may belong, but in terms of America, in terms of peace, in terms of freedom. Judge us. Judge my colleague. Judge me. Judge our opponents. And I think that if you do that, what we will find is that decision which will be made will be in the best interests of America and the peace of the world. And now if I could discuss the various issues which should enter into your judgment, first of all,, you must look at our record. Our record in this field is one that obviously like all records in a campaign is controversial. For 7½ years Cabot Lodge and I have been part of the administration. We have sat in the Security Council. We have sat in the Cabinet. We have participated in the discussions leading to every major decision that the President has made in this period in the field of foreign policy. Both of us know Mr. Khrushchev. Both of us have sat opposite him at the conference table. Both of us, I think I can say, have never been taken in by him and never will be. We know what kind of a man he is. [Cheers and applause.] This is the experience we offer, but in fairness I will have to admit that my opponent says this experience is not good. He says this experience is in programs - and I quote him - "these experiences have been in programs in the field of foreign policy for the last 7½ years, which have been years of defeat and retreat and stagnation for America" - and, my friends, I'm going to tell you those adjectives are all right, but he got the wrong administration. He meant Harry Truman's administration. [Cheers and applause.] I spoke right here in 1952. You remember the situation. It was in that administration that 600 million people went behind the Iron Curtain. It was that administration in which the proud peoples of Eastern Europe went behind and were sealed behind the Iron Curtain. It was in that administration that, because of woolly-headed, fuzzyminded thinking in high places, we got into a war in Korea - and I proudly say today that, whatever your criticisms may be of the Eisenhower leadership, at least it was leadership that ended one war, has kept us out of other wars and has brought us peace without surrender today. [Cheers and applause.] And so, you have now a great turning point in human affairs. The question that the American people must solemnly, quietly, looking deeply into their consciences, decide is this: Do we want to change direction? Do we want to repudiate the leadership of the President? Do we want to move in another direction? Do we need the kind of leadership that our opponent offers ? And my answer is this: Consider what he offers and in fairness we must indicate that he has disagreed with the President. I will reiterate those disagreements, and then you judge. He criticized the President, for example, in 1955 and voted with the minority of Senators of his own party in trying to deny to the President the right to defend two islands of freedom, in doing exactly the same thing that, in effect, brought on the war in Korea, by drawing a line and saying to the Communists: Come and get it. The President said: "No." He said, "Yes" to that. The President was right and he was wrong, and that's why we kept peace in the Formosa Straits. [Cheers and applause.] And then the second instance is one with which you are familiar. It is more recent. It was the summit conference in Paris last June. You remember Khrushchev shaking his fist under the chin of the President of the United States, using language so crude that the translator wouldn't even translate it, and people today don't even know what it was that was said, and then demanding that the President apologize for the U-2 flights, apologize in effect for defending the United States against surprise attacks, against his aggressive actions. The President refused, and my opponent said he could have apologized. The President was right and he was wrong, and the American people know it. [Cheers and applause.] And then, more recently, in our last debate, you recall the discussion we had with regard to Cuba. Here the question was not who was against Mr. Castro, the pipsqueak dictator down there. [Cheers and applause.] The question was: How do you handle him? And the President took the proper course. Adhering to the treaties that we had, he said: We will quarantine him economically and politically. That has been done. And then my opponent said : Oh, this is too little; this is too late - and, shooting from the hip, but missing the mark, as he so often has done [cheers and applause] - what he did was - he shot from the hip, and he said - this is too little and too late. The Government should directly aid the anti-Castro forces in and out of Cuba. And a storm of protest arose all over the Americas, in the United Nations; and, so, the next day he said: I didn't mean it that way. And the next day he said, also after these other incidents: I support the President on Quemoy and Matsu. I didn't mean apologize and express regrets. I give him, certainly, the right to change his mind. I say that he certainly has a right to tell the American. people that he now agrees with the President on these three issues. But, my friends, in the quietness of your own minds, consider this one point: A candidate can make a statement. He can be wrong. He can change his position the next day and nobody is hurt. A President of the United States, when he makes that decision, makes it for keeps. Let me describe one decision he made. I remember a Monday morning when we went into Lebanon. Very early in the morning the President was pacing the floor in the oval office in the White House. He knew that if we sent American boys into Lebanon it risked war, and he knew, however, that if he didn't send them in it risked the certainty that the Communists would move down through the Near East and that it would bring war later, much greater risk. And, so, he had to decide between these two risks. It had to be a courageous decision. Only he could make it, and it had to be right the first time. He made the decision. It was right. There was no war. Communism was stopped in the Near East. And the American people will be eternally grateful that for these last 7½ years we have had in the White House a man who has never shot from the hip. I have often heard him say in Security Council meetings, in Cabinet meetings, after we've had a discussion and some people will suggest this course of action and somebody will suggest something else, and somebody will say: Mr. President, you've got to do something right now. And he will say: Now, just wait a minute. We're not going to make any mistakes in a hurry. We're not going to shoot from the hip. And then he has walked alone into the office, and then later in the day or a few days later he has made the decision, And it is that awesome responsibility that the next President. must assume. I do not suggest to you, my friends, that I will have the ability that President Eisenhower has had. Here is one of the wisest men who has ever lived in this Nation or on this earth. [Cheers and applause.] My friends, millions not only in America, but throughout the world will forever bless him, bless him as the man who led the forces of freedom in war to great victory, and bless him as the man who was the great peacemaker as President of the United States. [Cheers and applause.] But, my friends, I can only tell you that I have been through the fire of decision. I can only tell you that I have seen what it means to make great decisions. I can only tell you that I know the men in the Kremlin, and I can assure you that, knowing the stakes, knowing the terrible consequences of rash or impulsive or arrogant action on the part of the President, that I pledge to you that, to the extent that my abilities and my background and my temperament permit, there will never be a decision made unless it is made in the coolness of contemplation, which is essential if we are to avoid war or surrender for the United States of America and the world. [Cheers and applause.] And, if I may be permitted to make the comparison, Ike was not wrong on these three great points, either one of which, incidentally, could have led to war or surrender, either one of which - Quemoy and Matsu, the conduct of the President at the Paris conference, the suggestion that he apologize or express regrets, the decision with regard to Cuba - if my opponent had been President and had made those mistakes, we might have had the disaster that we all want to avoid. He changed his mind, yes, but, my friends, as I say, when you're President, you don't have that luxury of a second chance. And I say to you today [cheers and applause] - I say to you - I say to you in all seriousness - whether you are Democrats or Republicans - I do not say it in bitterness; I say it by way certainly of commenting on the conduct of a man who is a candidate for the Presidency - that I do not believe that we can afford to use the White House as a training school to give a man experience at the expense of the American people. [Cheers and applause]. May I finally say that we shall move forward. We shall move forward at home in these next 4 years as we have never moved before because we have a bigger base on which to build, and we shall move forward abroad. My friends, as I indicated on television last night, I want you to know that, as we approach this election day, I feel that this is one of those great moments of destiny for a nation and a people and whoever the man who is selected as President may be. It is a moment when the United States and its people must live up to and meet the challenge which confronts them or we will go the way of other great civilizations of the past that had great promise and high hopes, but who failed to meet their destiny. My friends, I am convinced as I am standing here that we're going to meet this problem. I am convinced that we are going to have peace, and have it without surrender. I am convinced that the forces of freedom are going to prevail, that the people behind the Iron Curtain are going eventually to have freedom, and I am convinced of that not because of our military strength or our economic strength, both of which are important, but because we're on the right side. We believe in the right things. You know what is going to count? Our faith in God; our belief in the rights of men; our recognition that the rights that men have to freedom, to justice - that these are rights that do not come from men, but come from God and cannot be taken away by men; our belief that all nations have a right to be independent and that all men have a right to be free. These things America has always believed. These things we stand for today, and it is because we do believe in the great ideals that all the world wants - people on both sides of the Iron Curtain - the Russian people, the Chinese people, the Polish people - all of them want this. My friends, it is because we are on the side of right; it is because we are on God's side; it is because we are on this side [cheers and applause] that America will meet this challenge and that we will build a better America at home and that that better America will lead the forces of freedom in building a new world. This is the challenge. This is the challenge that we have. I am expected at this point to say; I am the only one who can do it. I do not say that, but I do say this: I say to you: Consider the qualifications of the two men running; consider them from the standpoint only of America, forgetting all other considerations, and the decision that is made, I am confident, tomorrow will be one that will be best for America. It will be best for the world. It is this message with which I close my last speech as the Vice President of the United States. Thank you. [Cheers and applause.]
Mr. Kennedy persists in his desperate tactic of predicting a recession in order to win an election. Fortunately, our economy is so strong that Mr. Kennedy cannot talk it into trouble. Listening to Mr. Kennedy, you would never know that there was anything to the doughnut but the hole. What are the strengths in the economy? Since he isn't likely to tell you, let me do so. Gross national product rose by $3 billion from the second to third quarter this year, excluding inventory change.. Electric power distribution is running 5 percent ahead of 1959. Total employment in September exceeded comparable figures last year by 1,200,000. Personal income is at an alltime high of $408 billion, a level of $25 billion higher than a year ago. Wage and salary payments exceed the comparable 1959 rate by $15 billion. Average hourly earnings of factory workers are 3 percent above 1959. Personal savings are running at an all-time high rate of $20 billion annually. Net farm income in the third quarter this year exceeded the year-ago rate by more than $1 billion. Department store sales in October exceeded the October 1959 volume. October automobile sales are believed to have been better than any October in history. Construction contracts continue to exceed 1959 levels. Manufacturers' new orders rose in September (last available data). These clearly are not the marks of a sick economy, of an economy in recession. The economy is strong, but it can be stronger. We can, and will, use every practical measure at Government's command to increase the number of jobs, decrease still further the number of jobless, utilize even more fully our capacity to produce, and attack the special problems of the distressed areas in the country. We can do this without either going through a recession or regimenting America. History will record the Kennedy recession of 1960 as his political wish which did not come true. What started out to be a pleasant daydream for Senator Kennedy will turn out tomorrow to be a horrible nightmare - and all this is to the public benefit.
Mr. Kennedy a month ago unveiled his program for agriculture. We have heard virtually nothing about it since. No wonder. This program would cause a million jobs to be lost on the farms of America. It would throw out of work another million people in towns who are in work associated with agriculture. It would put marketing controls on every farm commodity, some 250 in all. It would cut total agricultural marketings by 20 percent. Cattle marketings would be reduced 15 percent, hog marketings 25 percent. It would put at least 50,000 new inspectors on the Federal payroll - inspectors to watch over every farmer, farm, barnyard, field, and crop. Even former Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace - certainly no conservative - declares the controls imposed by this program would be more severe than those in many Communist countries. Specifically, what would this program mean to the dairy farmer of Wisconsin and elsewhere? It would cut his total sales of milk and cream. The Federal Government would give him a quota for the sale of these products - a percentage of his sales in a base period. Because of seasonal variations in the production and consumption of milk, it probably would be necessary to divide his annual quota into monthly or quarterly quotas. How would the Government determine the appropriate seasonal quotas for the individual producer? Let Mr. Kennedy tell you. His program would cut milk production up to 10 percent. It would institute prohibitions against overquota sales and severe penalties for violators, meted out by some of his 50,000 Federal inspectors. In the end it would shrink the markets of the dairy farmers and drive them off the farms in record numbers. Moreover, it would mean that under the Kennedy plan, a dairyman's son could not take up dairying without inheriting or buying the right to do so. All these hidden consequences of the Kennedy farm program are not something I have dreamed up. They have been traced out in a special report made public several weeks ago by career farm and food experts in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The dairy farmers, and the other farmers and ranchers, of Wisconsin and elsewhere deserve better than this. I believe that tomorrow the voters will reject Mr. Kennedy and has radical, destructive farm program.
Vice President NIXON. Good afternoon to everybody in the East, in the Midwest, in the South, and good morning to those who are still on Pacific time in California and the West. I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to visit with you through this telethon. I realize that many of you have favorite programs at this time, but it seemed that this was an opportunity which we could not miss to allow, for the first time in the history of American politics, the American people to question a candidate for the Presidency; and consequently we have scheduled 4 hours of telethon today, as you probably have been told by your announcer. I will not go into the details. I understand that they will indicate to you where you can call and how you can get your questions in to our moderators so they will be asked of me during the course of the program. I would like to say a word with regard to what I've been doing the last few days. I suppose, of course, you've been reading about it, but I would say, first of all, that this has been and will be the busiest last day of campaigning of any campaign in America's political history. I flew down from Alaska last night - in fact, we flew all night - and we started this morning with a meeting in Madison, Wis. I just returned from a great meeting here in Detroit at the Ford Auditorium, with a tremendous overflow crowd and a downtown motorcade. And after we finish this 4-hour telethon, I'm going to fly to Chicago to appear there on the final election eve broadcast. On that broadcast, incidentally, I will appear with President Eisenhower and with Cabot Lodge, and I think our families also will be present on that broadcast. Then after that, the day is still not over. We will fly on out to California and we'll be welcomed there with a torchlight parade at the Ontario, Calif. Airport. So you can see it has been a rather busy day. I also would like to tell you just a word about the intensity of the campaign itself. When I visited Alaska and spoke there yesterday, this was, in a real sense, a historic occasion. This is the first time in the history of the United States that any candidate, either Republican or Democrat, has visited all the 50 states. Of course, President Eisenhower couldn't have done that because there were only 48 States when he ran in 1952 and 1956. But this year I have visited all 50, and I am the only candidate of the two running who has done so. It's been a great experience, an experience that I will never regret because it gives an opportunity to a candidate to see all of the States of this country, to know the problems of the Nation, and then be able better to understand those problems. As I have traveled through the country, incidentally, I find that our people are much more united on the views that they have with regard to what leadership they want in Washington than you would imagine. Normally, you know, we think that people in the North think differently than people from the South and the East and the West and so forth, that we are rather sectionalminded. But I find, for example, whether it is in Hawaii or in Maine, people are concerned about such issues as the peace of the world, how we keep the peace, how we extend freedom, extend it without war. I find that's true North, East, West, and South, that that is the overriding issue of the campaign. I find also that, as far as our people are concerned, the interest in this campaign is perhaps higher than in any in which I have ever participated or any that I can recall in America's history, and I think this is good. I think that certainly we always have bad government whenever it's government in which people do not participate - participate adequately. And the fact that so many thousands of people - hundreds of thousands or, for that matter, millions of people have come out to see both me and Senator Kennedy I think is an indication that the American people have a real interest and concern about their Government, and the decision they make tomorrow will be a decision that they make rather than one that's been dictated by simply a party label or one that is dictated by some organization to which they belong. And that's the last point I make before we have the questions. If there's one thing I can emphasize above everything else, it is that this is such an important election, since we are selecting not only the President of the United States but the leader of the free world, that it is vital, absolutely vital that we put America first rather than party first, that we put America first above every other consideration and that you, the voters of this country, think not in terms of, for example, the, party label I wear and you wear. If you are a Republican and I'm a Republican, that isn't enough reason to vote for me, and the same is true of my opponent: If you are a Democrat and he is a Democrat, that isn't enough reason to vote for him. What we need is the best. man that either party can produce in these times. And that is my message to you as we open this historic telethon. And now I am ready for the questions, and I think one of our moderators is ready to step into the set for the purpose of asking the questions. QUESTION. This first one is a telegram from Ralph Miller. Incidentally, I feel it is obviously unnecessary to explain the detail of the procedure to you, but I think for the benefit of those at home and those who will be calling later, the moderator will read the question and then the question will be handed to you. This is from Ralph Miller, in Carmi, Ind., and the question is:  Would you use a veto in the United Nations Security Council to prevent the admission of Red China to the U.N.? Vice President NIXON. Well, to Mr. Ralph Miller, my answer to this question is that I certainly would use the veto in the Security Council under present circumstances. Let me put it this way: We cannot say at this time that Communist China will never qualify for admission to the United Nations, but at this time it is engaging in acts which disqualify it from admission to this organization. For example, I think many of us forget often that the United Nations Charter has a specific provision indicating that it is an organization of peace-loving peoples. Of course, some people will say, "Well, now, if that's the case, how did the Soviet Union get in?" And the answer, of course, is they were charter members. Now, Communist China simply can't qualify as a member of the United Nations as a peace-loving country. It can't qualify because it at the present time is in defiance of the United Nations in Korea. That is why our American boys are still tied down there. It is in defiance of the United Nations in the Formosa Straits where it is, in effect, waging military action against a member of the United Nations. We know the story of Tibet. Well, taking one example that is very close to home, to people here in the United States, they still, violating all canons of international law, keep prisoners, civilians from the United States, and we've been negotiating with them for years, as a matter of fact, to get them to change their policies. And so this is my answer: That until the Chinese Communist Government changes its policies, until it in effect cleanses itself of its present deficiencies, we could under no circumstances agree to its admission to the U.N. And although I would be reluctant to use the veto, because America has never used it, I think that the principle is so important here that we would have to use it to keep a nation out that simply can't qualify as a peace-loving nation. QUESTION. Thank you, sir. These first, by the way, are telegrams. I only mention that to indicate that the telephone messages haven't been compiled as yet. This is from Mr. and Mrs. Earl V. Fisher, Monroe, La. Question  It is our considered opinion that Kennedy refused to buy Telethon time not because he does not have the money but because he would not have adequate time to retract his imprudent answers. Do you concur? Vice President NIXON. Well, of course that's a rather leading question. QUESTION. It certainly is. Vice President NIXON. I don't know what was in his mind for not buying the telethon time, but I would only suggest that this is the first time I ever heard that Senator Kennedy didn't have the money to get what he wanted. I would suggest that's not the real reason. QUESTION. No, I would imagine not. This is from Chauncey Williams and Bradley A. Walker, Stamford, Conn.:  We have two questions which we consider basic to this Nation's future. In over 180 years our Nation has grown from a wilderness colony to the most powerful nation on the earth. We all know that this great demonstration has come from free men working together in freedom. This reflects the wisdom of our Founding Fathers, one of whom, Thomas Jefferson, said: "The best government is the least government." Do you believe this is true? Also, do you believe that big government means small people? Secondly, do you agree that President Eisenhower, having established himself as the world's leader of all nations and the hope of all mankind - would you be willing during these troubled times to appoint President Eisenhower as an adviser to your cabinet on international relations and as a world ambassador at large to assist your government in our international relations? I am sure that we reflect the prayers and thoughts of millions of Americans in declaring yourself favorably on these questions. QUESTION. It is quite a long one. Vice President NIXON. Yes. That would require quite a long answer too, if I could adequately answer it in the time that we have. Let me just touch the high points, because it does certainly deserve some response on these very key questions. First I would say with regard to the quote from Thomas Jefferson that I'm very proud of the fact that the platform that my party adopted at Chicago is basically much closer to the philosophy of Thomas Jefferson than the platform which was adopted by the Democratic Party at Los Angeles. Their platform went all the way toward centralized big government, toward having lack of good faith in individuals, toward weakening the States and weakening the responsibilities of local government. It is my philosophy now, and it is the philosophy of our platform, that the Federal Government has great responsibilities, but that the closer you can keep government to the people, the better, and that wherever possible you should let individuals do for themselves rather than requiring government or having government move in. QUESTION. This is from Dr. J. T. Denoski, Benton, Ill.  Explain why it would be dangerous to lower prevailing interest rates. Do big interest rates favor big money people as Kennedy says? Vice President NIXON. Well, the problem of interest rates, of course, is one that is tremendously complicated and one that it is very easy to demagog on. For example, Senator Kennedy has said over and over again in this campaign that we should have low interest rates, but what does he mean, 3 percent, 2 percent, 1 percent? When you carry it to its logical extreme, why have any interest rates at all, why not just let the people borrow money with no interest? You see what I mean? In other words, interest is the cost of borrowing money, and that cost must vary according to how much money is in circulation, what the demand is, and if you get the Government, and I am speaking particularly now of the President of the United States, manipulating interest rates for political purposes, you will then find that the value of your money is going to go down. Let me put it another way: Too often, I think, that when we are in government we talk in terms of these theoretical concepts and fail to illustrate, but think back a moment. You remember the Truman years. Up until 1951 Mr. Truman had the power to, in effect, manipulate interest rates through political control of the Federal Reserve System. Now when he exercised that power, and as he exercised it, the result was disastrous for the country, because that was one of the major factors in reducing the value of our dollar in that period. You remember. In the period from 1945 to 1952, the 7 Truman years, the value of the dollar went down 50 percent. This was the cruelest thing that possibly could have been done to, particularly, people who lived on fixed incomes. I know, for example, people on pensions, on social security, as you must, who suffered terribly because their income stayed the same and yet the money, what their income would buy, went down. It was also cruel as far as the wage earner was concerned. For example, in the 7 Truman years we found that wages went up, but, on the other hand, we found that, as far as real income is concerned, the wage earner at the end of 7 years was no better than at the beginning, because prices went up just as much. Now one of the reasons for this inflation, one of the reasons was the interest rates were manipulated and kept at artificially low levels. When you do that, that means that the money supply is increased beyond the point that it should be, and that means that you are going to have inflation. The other reason, of course, was that. Mr. Truman had a policy of deficit spending - the Government spending more than it took in - and this also inflates the currency and reduces the value of your dollars; so just to summarize, I have taken a little more time on this because it is a very controversial issue and one that is difficult to understand. After all, I want to be elected just as Senator Kennedy does. If he says that he is for 3-percent interest rates, why wouldn't I say I was for 2 ? The reason I don't, I know it is bad for you, I know it is bad for the people particularly on fixed incomes; I know it is bad particularly for those who are wage earners who are trying to balance the family budget, and I can assure you that, as far as I can, as President of the United States, I am going to adopt the kind of policies that are sound and that will avoid inflating the dollars, and that means reducing the value of what you earn and what you are able to buy. QUESTION. The next question is a telegram from Kenneth Plummer, R.F.D. 2, Casanovia, N.Y.:  If elected, will the policy of buying Cuban sugar at world or subsidized price be endorsed by you in 1901 ? Vice President NIXON. This question, incidentally, reminds me of one of the benefits of this kind of a program, Lloyd. This word that you had a little difficulty with, Casanovia, that is one of those cities that I have never been in. I thought I had been in virtually every city in the United States, so this gives a chance to people who normally wouldn't get to some of our meetings to question and see the candidates in person. Now, with regard to the buying of Cuban sugar, as you know, up until the time Castro began to adopt his anti-American policies, Cuban sugar was subsidized by about 2 cents a pound. The reason for that was we wanted to assure the United States having a constant sugar supply. Now when Castro began his anti-American policies, and I mean by that his confiscation of our properties in that area, of the properties of our private individuals who are American citizens, and his very violent attacks on the President and on the American Government itself, the Congress very properly, at the instigation of the President, and upon his recommendation, took away this subsidy, so I would say briefly here that if Castro and/or whatever government succeeds him, changes its attitude, then we will change our attitude with regard to Cuban sugar, but as long as Castro takes the attitude that he does, of violent opposition to everything we stand for, I certainly don't want to have the American people paying 2 cents a pound extra for sugar in order to help a man who is really an enemy of the United States. QUESTION. This is a telegram from Chauncey Williams and Bradley A. Walker, Stratford, Conn.  We have two questions which we consider basic to this Nation's future. In over 180 years our Nation has grown from a wilderness colony to the most powerful nation on the earth. We all know that this great demonstration has come from freemen working together in freedom. This reflects the wisdom of our Founding Fathers, one of whom, Thomas Jefferson, said: "The best government is the least government." Do you believe this is true? Also, do you believe that big government means small people? Secondly, do you agree that President Eisenhower, having established himself as the world's leader of all free nations and the hope of all mankind, would you be willing, during these troubled times, to appoint President Eisenhower as an adviser to your Cabinet on international relations and as a world ambassador at large to assist your government in our international relations? I am sure that we reflect the prayers and thoughts of millions of Americans in declaring yourself favorable on these questions. Vice President NIXON. That is a question, incidentally, that we got on the previous part of the program, but which you very properly reread, because I didn't get to answer but about a third of it because of the time cutoff. I did answer the question with regard to Thomas Jefferson, and indicated I was proud of the fact that my party represents the true principles of Thomas Jefferson as stated, that the best government is the least government, certainly in the broad sense; recognizing the fact that government has some very real and great responsibilities. Responsibilities, for example, in the field of national defense, responsibilities, for example, with regard to the economy, in putting, certainly, a floor as far as security is concerned, but no ceiling on opportunity. If I might sum up in a few words, my general economic philosophy, but when we look at the problem of President Eisenhower, the second part of the question, I certainly believe that whoever is the next President should make use of President Eisenhower's tremendous popularity and his talents in the international field. He is a man of infinite good will. There are some men who have this almost mystical quality of being able to command when he goes to other countries an affection which simply exceeds our bounds, and I would say that it would be a very great mistake if President Eisenhower were not used to the full. I have discussed it with him. He will be available for some journeys abroad, particularly to the Iron Curtain countries. I have already discussed that, and he is willing to do that, and I would also think that his advice ought to be sought. I would seek it, and I would hope that if I did not win that my opponent would seek it, because he is one of the wisest men that we have in the world today, and he has been through so much experience that his advice would be extremely helpful in any international crisis. Vice President NIXON. I just find, Cabot, I have a question for you. They just rushed it in here. It says: "On TV your children looked happy and very lovely. As a successful parent and future President" - wait, this isn't for you; this is for me - "please tell us how we can inspire our children with the important goals they can achieve." I will answer that later. Let's see where the questions are for Cabot Lodge. Let me ask you one. What do you find to be the issue that most concerns the American people at the present time as you travel in your campaign ? What issue above all the rest? Mr. LODGE. What concerns people the most is peace. I think they are tremendously grateful for the fact that we have had no U.S. battle casualty since President Eisenhower brought the Korean war to an end. Whenever I mention the fact that we have a United Nations force in the Congo, so that young Americans of military age today are not thinking about going to the Congo the way they were thinking about going to Korea in 1950, people always express great approval. I think the people realize that the President of the United States has control over weapons which could devastate the earth, that he makes decisions which affect every human being in the world, and that they want a man who is mature, who is deliberate, who is contemplative, who is studious, and who approaches these questions never in a spirit of rashness or impulse or impetuousness. That I think is what they want, and that is the feeling that I get from having campaigned vigorously all over this country. Vice President NIXON. I find exactly the same thing as I have been traveling around the country. I, as you know, just completed 50 States, Alaska yesterday, and I couldn't agree more that that is the problem of greatest concern. I find, too, however, that while our people want peace, they are most interested in not simply keeping the situation as it is, with this terrible threat and danger hanging over us. The people, in other words, want us to take the initiative; too, shall we say, encourage and to strengthen the instruments of peace, the instruments of freedom around the world. And I know that you and I have discussed this, and as you know I intend to give you some responsibilities in this field. I wonder if you would tell some of our listeners just briefly what you think we can do with regard to strengthening the United Nations and the American position generally in winning the peace and in removing the terrible danger of war which hangs over us at the present time. Mr. LODGE. I think the people look to the U.S. Government not only to keep the peace and prevent the Communists from extending their power, but to lead the world up onto a high plateau, a new high ground, where the cold war will be behind us and where lasting peace will be established on a dependable basis, so the people won't be living their lives under the shadow of the fear of war all the time. Now there are many ways to get at that, but certainly we must be stronger in America - militarily strong, economically strong, strong in making our democratic institutions work for the benefit of the people, strong in the example which we set to the world that we practice what we preach. We can build up the power and the influence of the United Nations in many ways. Certainly one way is the administration of economic aid abroad on a multilateral international basis. I think you could increase the number of United Nations guards, which could be very useful at trouble spots. Then, I think what you have in mind, which is to given the Vice President the direction of the nonmilitary aspects of the world struggle, could put us in a position to get a quick position on matters involving many different Government departments. This in turn would enable us to take the initiative and put the Soviets on the defensive. It would put us in a better position to get quick agreements with our allies, and generally to seize and to hold the initiative as long as the Soviet Union insists on forcing this cold war on us. I believe that eventually we are going to end this cold war, and we will end it through the power of our ideals, with our military and our economic strength, of course, always in the background. Vice President NIXON. Well, I certainly couldn't agree more, and I have often said during the course of this campaign that it would be presumptuous for me to talk about my own qualifications as against my opponent. But I can certainly talk about my vice-presidential running mate. To all of those who are viewing or listening in this audience, I believe you will agree that no one could have done a better job than Cabot Lodge has done for America in the last 7½ years, fighting for the cause of peace and freedom at the United Nations.  That's why I don't intend to let him be a Throttlebottom. That's why I intend to give him even more duties than President Eisenhower has given me, particularly in this international field. Because I am confident that he, working just as much as he possibly can - on a full-time basis, at times, incidentally - will be able to negotiate to take the initiative, not just to keep things as they are, but to take the initiative to extend freedom and to strengthen the instruments of peace. There's only one thing I would add in this respect. As we take this initiative, we must remember that we have a lot of people on our side. I have often said that when we consider our problems in the world, we sometimes overlook those factors that are favorable to our cause. Sure, there are world leaders - the Communist leaders in Russia, the Communist leaders in China - who are determined to conquer the world by any means, if possible; by war, even, if necessary. Now, on the other hand, we have to bear in mind that as far as the people are concerned - and I can speak certainly of the people of the Soviet Union, the people of Poland, two Communist countries that I have visited - there isn't any question but that they are on the side of peace. They want peace. And we in America must be very careful always to identify the leaders and separate them from the people. The Russian people, in my opinion, are a peace-loving people. I think that's one of the restraining influences, incidentally, on Mr. Khrushchev. One of the reasons why he cannot be even more belligerent than he is, is that his people do not want war; they do not want it under any circumstances. They have seen it, they have suffered from it. Every place I went in Russia I was very touched to have veterans of World War II come up and in some instances throw their arms around me and say, "We are for peace. We want friendship with America. We want friendship with all the world." These are common citizens, ordinary citizens, not Communist leaders that I'm talking about. So it means something. It means that we, as far as our principles are concerned, are on the right side, because the people are on our side. And, with this factor going for us, if we simply represent the ideals of people at their best, we can win this struggle - win it, and win it without war. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I do have several questions for Mr. Lodge here. Mrs. Charles A. Potter, 345 Roosevelt Place, Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.; housewife.  Isn't it true that the prestige of the United States was at its lowest in 1917, 1941, and 1950 when aggressors attacked the United States? Mr. LODGE. I would say to Mrs. Potter that our prestige was very, very high on VJ Day. Then we had this hasty demobilization of the Army and the withdrawal of the Army from Europe, which I think everyone all recognizes to have been a great mistake, and the Soviets came in and filled up the gap, and that raised their prestige by that, amount. Then, in 1949, the Soviet exploded the atomic bomb, which of course was a gain for them; and then in 1952 they developed the nuclear warhead. Since then I think our prestige has been going up, partly because our military strength is known to be so great that it would inflict total devastation on any country that chose to attack us. And then I think there is confidence that our word is good, that our motives are noble, and I think there's great respect for us. There isn't any better place in the world to determine the prestige of the United States than the United Nations, where you have the representatives of all the governments of the world - carefully selected men, men with long experience in international politics - and it is an interesting fact that the United States has never been defeated in the United Nations. It is an interesting fact that even on extremely delicate questions, like the complaints of Cuba, for example, or the RB-47 reconnaissance case, the Afro-Asian members of the council, the so-called neutralists, uncommitted countries, voted with us. That simply wouldn't be possible if our prestige was low. Prestige and popularity are not the same thing. When the Communists foment a riot against one of our officials in some foreign country, it doesn't mean that our prestige is low. It means that the Communists don't like us. That's an entirely different thing. You can easily avoid having the Communists do that if you follow the foreign policy which the Communists like, but of course in that case our opponents would accuse us of appeasing the Communists. So the question of popularity doesn't come into it. A country as big and as strong as we are cannot expect to be loved, but it can expect to be respected - and we are greatly respected. QUESTION. Mr. Vice President, I have a question from Mr. Dan Griffin in Flint, Mich. He identifies himself as a factory worker. His question is: What will you do to try to avoid a depression? Vice President NIXON. Well, let me say, first, to Mr. Griffin, that I think we ought to set the record straight about whether we are going to have a recession or a depression. When I was here in Detroit, just a few days ago, I was rather shocked to see a headline, a headline - when I was in Michigan, I should say, I was not in Detroit, I was in upper Michigan - I saw a headline to the effect that Senator Kennedy predicted a slump, and that later on he made a statement to the effect that he would consult or be willing to consult, if he was elected President, to consult with President Eisenhower as to how to handle this slump or recession if one should come. Now, that is a very roundabout way of reasoning on a very, very serious subject. But in the very same paper in which he predicted a slump, there was another headline saying that new car sales were at an alltime high in the United States. Now, my friends, you have a recession or a slump when? When people lose confidence in the economy, when they quit buying cars and refrigerators and everything else. When people have confidence, when they are buying, this means that you don't fear a recession. Somebody is wrong here. Either Senator Kennedy, who is predicting the slump, or millions of Americans who are buying more new cars than ever in history. Who are buying more, investing more, saving more than at any other time in history. My answer to Mr. Griffin, one, is that there is not going to be a recession; Two, no political candidate is going to talk this country into a recession. The people have confidence in it; and Three, as far as I am concerned, I would use the full force of the Government, if we did have evidences of a business downturn, to fight this slump. We can't go into detail on it, but to fight it, fight it effectively, because I know what it means, I know what it means to families when they are out of work, I know what it means when families do not have enough income, and under no circumstances would I fail to use the fiscal powers of the Government, particularly the taxing powers and every other possible power to see to it that we did the necessary things that would avoid a slump in the United States. I want to make it clear again to Mr. Griffin, we are talking about a theoretical recession. There is none now, and there isn't going to be one, in my opinion. QUESTION: This is from Mr. Harry Lipper, Hollis, Long Island, N.Y.:  Will social security be increased in 1960-61 ? Vice President NIXON. I don't know what Mr. Lipper means by being increased. I do know this, that I have a program, a program which I announced a few days ago as part of my campaign plan for extending social security coverage to approximately 2 million people not presently covered, and also to increase the benefits for certain categories, particularly widows, where there at present is an inequity in the system. As to whether or not there would be an increase in the benefits voted by the Congress, we could not say at this point. I would say finally that certainly we should increase social security benefits as the economy continues to grow and as we have the funds available for that purpose, because all of us in this country want to see to it that, as we reach retirement age, we are able to live easily, and certainly I couldn't have a stronger feeling on that. That is why I am for extending the program to the 2 million not presently covered, and I want to say, incidentally, on that score my opponent has no program, for extending social security. One other point I want to make on this score, John, social security is something that most Americans have investments in, and there is one thing that we all have to remember, and that is what would wreck social security, what would wreck pensions, what would wreck our futures is for the Government to break faith with the American people and allow the value of the dollar to go down as it did during the Truman years. I am not going to let that happen. My opponent's program, unfortunately, of huge Government spending, of artificially paid low-interest rates will inevitably result in reducing the value of every social security check. I think this is wrong. I think this is cruel, that's why I oppose it. QUESTION. This one is from Alfred Ball, Jr., Willow Grove, Pa. He says:  What is your stand as far as helping small businesses? Vice President NIXON. To Mr. Ball I have announced a program for small business which, on a program of this type, wouldn't be possible to go into detail. Let me indicate, first, how I feel about the subject generally. You know each of us in political life has certain, what you might call, pet ideas and assistance to small business is one idea that I have always had a strong feeling on, because I came from a small business. My father had a small grocery store, a general store and service station. I think small business is the lifeblood of a free economy. I think it's essential that we do everything we can to see to it that small business isn't choked out. There are several things that can be done. One, of course, you have to have fair but certainly effective enforcements of the antitrust laws so you do not have big business choking out small business. Second, you have to have tag and credit policies by Government which will particularly enable small business to move forward. Third, small business has got to get its fair share of Government contracts. Fourth, I think it's essential, as far as small business is concerned, that we think of what we can do, what we can do generally to encourage our, people to invest their money in small business as well as the big businesses, and in this respect I have announced programs that I think will be effective on that score. All in all, let me say this: Small business has fared extremely well in this administration. It is going to fare better in the next one, because we have a farsighted, aggressive program in this field. It's one that I could not have a deeper conviction on, because I believe, if our economy is going to continue to be free, if it's going to continue to grow, we have got to constantly feed in the lifeblood of the new ideas which only small business can adequately provide. QUESTION. From Mr. or Mrs. Leon Chapin, 907 Davison, Tuscoma, Ala. She asks Are you for or against the TVA ? Vice President NIXON. Well, that's an easy question. I am for the TVA. I am for reclamation projects generally. I think the Federal Government has a responsibility to see to it that the vast resources of America are adequately developed. Now, that doesn't mean that the Federal Government does the whole job. Where the job can be done by private enterprise more efficiently, then it should be done by private enterprise. Where the best job can be done by State government more efficiently, then it should be done by State government. Where the Federal Government is the only instrumentality that is big enough to do the job, then it ought to do it. TVA is a project of that type. I am not only for it, I voted for it, and I should point out, incidentally, that my opponent, coming as he does from New England, has consistently opposed the TVA and reclamation projects. He says he is for it now, and I take him at his word. Coming from the West, I am for reclamation, and we westerners have a very strong feeling about the responsibilities of the Federal Government to develop our national resources. QUESTION. This one is from Dr. William R. Delzel, Stamford, Conn. It says: Kennedy offers no help to retired and needy doctors because they do not have social security. Will your social security plan include aid to aged and needy physicians? Vice President NIXON. I don't quite get the point of this question, but let me guess what the doctor means. There are two plans for medical care for the aged. First is the Kennedy plan. The Kennedy plan provides that all people on social security who have social security will be required to buy compulsory health insurance. Now, the difficulty with that plan, however, is that it leaves out about 3 million people in this country who don't have social security. They get no protection at all. These are people over 65. My plan for medical care for the aged covers all people, not just those on social security. It covers all people over 65. But it is not compulsory. It makes it possible for anybody, including Dr. Delzel or anybody else who wants health insurance, to get it, but it does not require him to have insurance against his will. This is the American way to do it. I think it is a much more effective way. It's a broader program. We provide more benefits, and I'm particularly glad to get this question because there is no more vicious statement that's been made in this campaign by Senator Kennedy and some of his colleagues than that we oppose medical care for the aged. It is they who have an inadequate program. They don't even take care of the 3 million people who in many instances need medical care, medical insurance after 65. We have a program that covers everybody and covers it more adequately. And so I say we're for it and they're against it, if we want to put it in black and white. QUESTION. The next question is from Samuel Funk, Illinois, and I believe the town is Hammond. He identifies himself as a farmer:  What will be done to get rid of the farm surpluses, to get the farmer out of the price squeeze that was due to the runaway inflation policy? Vice President NIXON. First, we have already talked about inflation a lot on this program. And I have a program that will keep the dollar sound. It will not allow inflation. If the farmer is concerned about the cost-price squeeze - and he certainly better be because it has been very rough on him - the one thing he must not do is to support my opponent, because his program inevitably has to lead to higher prices or higher taxes or both. You can't spend $15 billion a year more to pay off those promises that he's made all over the country without taking it out of somebody, and that means the American people. Now, as far as the surpluses are concerned, I have a new program in this field, a program that I am confident will get the surpluses off the farmer's back and off the back of the market, and that means that farm income will move up. What it will do: First of all, we are going to have a new program for disposal of foods abroad through the United Nations, and Cabot Lodge has worked with me on this program, and I think it will do a tremendous job in this field. Secondly, we're having a new program for converting our grains to proteins, to foods, for example, that can be used in other forms and that at the present time cannot be disposed of. For example, at the present time we have surpluses of wheat. We have surpluses of corn. The corn and wheat market are saturated. On the other hand, if you convert the wheat and the corn into meat, canned meat, it may be that we can find markets for that. So this conversion program is one that will move very effectively on the surplus front. I can't cover it all. I covered it in a major speech in Iowa. I only say this: I'm confident that my farm program will be one that will get rid of the surpluses. It is going to cost some money to do it, but it's far better to spend more money now getting rid of the surpluses and less later by letting them continue to hang over the market and hang over the taxpayer and hang over the farmer, because as long as these surpluses stay with us, it's going to keep farm income down. We've got to get rid of them, and that's why I have a crash program to do it. QUESTION. This one is from Mrs. Zack, I believe, 1630 Hubbard, and it has a city, Livonia, no State: Is it necessary to treat Castro as a little boy, and why? Vice President NIXON. I will say that the question somewhat answers itself. Castro - let me say it in all fairness: The Cuban people needed a revolution. The Cuban people are wonderful people. You've been there, John. You know how wonderful they are. The Cuban people have never had a decent government. They just have never had it. They never had an honest government in Cuba. And it was time that they had a revolution. But the last thing they needed was a Communist-directed revolution, and that's what Castro has given them. And I'm confident that they will assert themselves and that they will get the progress with freedom which they deserve, and with honest government. As far as Castro is concerned, we've got to treat him like a little boy because that's the way he's acting. But I think the Cuban people in their good time will see to it that they do get leadership which represents the true ideals of the Cuban revolution. QUESTION. This one is from Mr. Hayes in, I believe, Howard, Calif.  If the Chinese try to take the offshore islands, will you oppose it with military force or do you have another way of handling it? Vice President NIXON. My answer to that is that we must never make the mistake that was made in Korea, and that is to indicate in advance that we are not going to defend an area which is free. The moment you do that, the Communists move in, because this is the way they always operate. Weakness invites attack with them. So as far as the offshore islands is concerned, our policy - it is President Eisenhower's policy and it is my policy - is that at the present time it is clear that the Chinese Communists consider the offshore islands only a stepping stone to Formosa. We have a treaty with Formosa. We cannot keep our treaty with Formosa unless we also have the right to defend the offshore islands. I think as long as we make it clear that we are not surrending the offshore islands, the Chinese Communists will not attempt to take them. But if we once indicate that we are changing our position, that we're vacillating, that we might change it, they will move in like that, and when they move, we have to move in. This is from Mr. Charles Sunnona, in Detroit here:  How would you, Mr. Nixon, handle the unemployment in and around the Detroit area? Vice President NIXON. Well, I can suggest one way to handle it, and that is to elect a new governor in Michigan. One of the problems in Michigan is that you have a tremendously skilled labor force here. You have tremendous resources, plants, and the like. But due to the kind of State government that you have which is one of the most disgraceful governments in the whole country, it's run business out of Michigan. It's discouraged business from coming into Michigan. And by electing Paul Bagwell Governor of Michigan - and I say this to this national audience - I think that you are going to find that Michigan then will get its right share - rightful share of the new business which should come to Michigan with all of its skilled employees. As far as the interim period is concerned, of course we have got - we must handle our unemployment insurance in a way that it will adequately cover all of those who are unemployed, and we must extend the system - and I have advocated this - extend the system to fill some of the loopholes that presently exist. But the long-range solution is to get more business into Michigan so that you can provide the jobs. QUESTION. This one is from Leo McFadden, 1722 Union Street, Kalamazoo:  Do you approve of the Negro sit-in demonstrations in the South? Vice President NIXON. I have often answered that question, and I appreciate the opportunity to restate my views on this television program. The objective of the sit-in demonstrations - that is, to require that there be no discrimination in the department stores and other stores between - as far as color or race is concerned - I think is one that all Americans who are devoted to constitutional principles would have to approve, and I approve them, certainly. In other words, let me explain it this way: I was talking to a friend of mine recently with regard to this problem, and he was telling me the problem that he ran into. It happened that he was talking on the subject with his own children. He was a Negro. He said: You know, it's very, very difficult to explain to a Negro child at a certain time when he lives in the areas where there is this kind of discrimination - to tell him that he can go into a store and he can buy a package - a loaf of bread, but that he cannot sit at the counter and eat lunch or he has to stand. Now, how do you explain that? How do you explain that when the President of the United States, for example, has Negroes for dinner at the White House? It is wrong. It must be changed. And, consequently, we have to understand that those who engaged in the sit-in demonstrations had great provocation. Now, as far as how we are going to handle the problem is concerned, I think there is an effective way to handle it, and that we're on the way. The Attorney General of the United States sat down recently with the heads of all of the chainstores operating in the Southern States, and they agreed voluntarily to change their policy. This is the way to get action. This is far better than to try to get action through any kind of mob violence or anything of that sort. And so, consequently, I think this is the kind of leadership we should have in the next administration, where we bring the people in that are involved in these situations and see to it that they recognize that it is their responsibility as American citizens not to practice prejudice and discrimination in matters of this type. QUESTION. This is from Hadley Wine, 20011 Marlowe, Detroit, Mich.:  If you come into power, how will you get your program completed if there is a Democratic majority? Vice President NIXON. Well, there is a very good answer to that, President Eisenhower has done very well with a Democratic majority for the last 6 years. The situation with regard to the Congress is very simply this: Congressmen, of course, are Democrats and Republicans, but they are Americans first, and where the country is concerned, I have found that Republicans and Democrats alike, when great issues are involved, will vote for those particular proposals that they believe are in the best interests of the country, and to the extent that a President., if I should be President, represents what is best for America, he will be able to get the support of Congress, whether it is Republican or Democrat. QUESTION. This is from Mrs. T. Golvia, 16236 Burwood, Birmingham, Mich.:  You never had it so good. What do you intend to do about all the people out of work? Vice President NIXON. Well, the answer to that, of course, is that in the United States we must continue to expand our economy so that the people out of work can get real jobs, and we have made tremendous progress in that particular area over the last 7½ years. Now, this question obviously indicates that the questioner thinks that the situation today is bad, compared to what it was in the past. Let me point out something: In the 20 years before this administration came to power, we never had prosperity with peace at the same time. We always had, when we had a relatively high employment, it was either during wartime or as a result of war. I can spell it right out. In 1939, for example, after 7 years of the first administration, we, found that there were 9 million Americans unemployed, and it took the war preparation to bring us out; and then again in the Truman administration, we find that it took the Korean war to pull us out of what was then the recession of the 1949-50 period. What we have done in the Eisenhower administration is that we have developed policies that have brought high employment but without war, and I can assure you that we are going to do everything we can to expand the economy, to continue to see that those Americans who want to work will be able to get work. My last point is this: Look at the unemployment figures. They are going down every month. We find that they reached the level of three million three, just the other day, and I believe they are going to continue to go down with the kind of leadership we can give. QUESTION. If I appear from time to time to indicate approval, it is because I do. This is from Mrs. Don Robinson, 4440 Eastway Drive, Lansing, Mich.:  Who made the decision whether Mrs. Nixon would travel with her husband on the campaign or stay home with the children? Vice President NIXON. Well, I can say that that is a very good question from Mrs. Robinson, and as is usually the case, our family is just like every other American family, we make those decisions jointly. There is no dictation in our family, and my wife is with me on this campaign because she always has. We, for example, started in 1946; you remember, Bob, you live out there in California, and in 1950 she traveled with me, and in the 1952 campaign and in the 1956 campaign. It is very difficult, I want to make it clear, it is a very hard decision to make, because we miss our girls, particularly in this age, 12 and 14, when they are growing up, and they have so much to tell us, so much that we would like to hear and like to share, but on the other hand, my wife feels that it is her responsibility, also, to contribute as much as she can to this campaign, and I can tell you that she is a great campaigner. You spoke a moment ago about how I was feeling and whether I was getting tired. I do get tired sometimes, and I get a cold, but I have never known in all our travels abroad and at home, my wife, Pat,, ever to get tired. She should be the one running rather than me. She certainly has made, I think, a lasting and deep impression on the American public. She has certainly been magnificent through it all, and I think with the little knowledge I have of 12 and 14-year-old girls, I am sure they understand Mommy being away at this particular time. QUESTION. This is from Mr. White, Warren, Mich.  What is your stand on the 32-hour workweek? Vice President NIXON. Well, the 32-hour workweek just isn't a possibility at the present time. I made a speech back in the 1956 campaign when I indicated that as we went into the period of automation, that it was inevitable that the workweek was going to be reduced, that we could look forward to the time in America when we might have a 4-day week, but we can't have it now. We can't have it now for the reason that we find, that as far as automation is concerned, both because of the practices of business and labor, we do not have the efficiency yet developed to the point that reducing the workweek would not result in a reduction of production. The workweek can only be reduced at a time when reduction of the workweek will not reduce efficiency and will not reduce production. Now, as we move into heavy automation, and this is going to take some statesmanship, may I say, on both the part of business and labor, you can't blame it all on labor, you can't blame it all on business, they both have to get together. The "make work featherbedding" has to go out, and some business' reactionary policies have to be changed, as well. This is one of the reasons why I intend, on an industry-by-industry basis, to have the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Commerce work with the major industries in this country to see how we can hasten automation, because automation is going to make the difference as to whether we maintain our position in the world of leadership economically. As we hasten automation, the workweek can be reduced, but until we do, it cannot be. QUESTION. From Mr. Vatz, 7703 Patton, Detroit, Mich.  Please comment on Mr. Kennedy's statement that we are using only 60 percent of our steel capacity. Vice President NIXON. Well, my answer to that is that as far as steel capacity is concerned, that when we compare the steel capacity that we have today with what we had, say, 5 years ago, that that 60 percent is the production of more steel now than then. The question is not how much capacity you use. The question is whether you are producing enough steel to meet the demands of society. For example, when we get into all this argument about economic growth that we have been hearing about, people point to the fact that the Soviet Union is building more steel mills than we are, more railroads than we are. Well, of course, we already have our steel mills built, we already have our railroads built. This is no indication of relative progress. Now, as far as steel is concerned, the rate at the present time, of 60 percent, is low for a variety of reasons; competition with other kinds of products which replace the steel that are in competition with it, also as a result of the steel strike, the heavy buying immediately afterward and now a dip in the production, but I will say this, as new car sales increase, and there is evidence that they are going to continue to go up, and that this will be the best year in history, steel production is going to go up, too. QUESTION. From Mr. Eugene Pervis, 12132 North Martindale, Detroit, Mich., factory worker  What was the reason for voting as you did in breaking the tie on Federal aid to education? Vice President NIXON. Well, that vote I would like to explain to Mr. Pervis and to our listeners, was a key vote, a key vote showing the difference in philosophy between Mr. Kennedy and myself. The bill for Federal aid to education that the President asked for would have provided funds for school construction. Now, the Congress, the Senate in this instance, tried to adopt an amendment to the bill which would have had the Federal Government also directly subsidize teachers' salaries. Now, why shouldn't that be done? Well, let me tell you, first of all, it should be done if that is the proper way to get teachers' salaries up, because they should go up. Our teachers in many areas are inadequately paid. There is nothing more important than paying them what they need. You spoke of our two girls a moment ago. Their teachers spend a lot more time with them than we do, and I couldn't feel more strongly on the subject, but the difficulty is this: The moment that you have the Federal Government directly subsidizing our teachers throughout this country, you have, and you are inviting the Federal Government to control what the teachers teach. This we must not have, because the essence of freedom of education in this country is local control; so that is why my Federal aid to education program is one that limits the aid to school construction and operations, but how does that help to aid the teachers, you say? Well, obviously it is very clear. If we have a school district, and any school board member will understand this, it has a budget, a budget for construction, a budget for operation, a budget for salaries. If that particular district gets assistance on its budget for construction and operations, that relieves funds for teachers' salaries but, by keeping the Federal Government out of the business of directly subsidizing teachers' salaries, that means you leave the control of what is taught at the local level, and that is where it belongs. The moment you get the Federal Government controlling centrally what is taught in the United States, you are on the road, in my opinion, to the loss of freedom in this country. And that is why I voted against it. QUESTION. Mr. James Rutledge, 928 Railroad, Lansing, Mich.:  What would you do about minimum wage laws? Vice President NIXON. That's a very general question, and I don't know what exactly Mr. Rutledge is referring to. I would answer the question, hoping that I am hitting the point, and if it doesn't, if he will call back in, we will give this question priority. I have answered the question by saying that I favor the raising of the minimum wage to $1.15. I also favor extending coverage to 3 million people not presently covered. Now, let's look very practically at what happened in the last session of the Congress - this so-called Kennedy-Johnson session. They had a minimum wage bill in that session of the Congress. They rejected this bill, which could have passed, and they tried of course to get through a bill which would have extended coverage to more people and which would have raised the minimum to $1.15 this year and to $1.25 next year. Now, let me say this. The question isn't whether I am against or for $1.15 or $1.25. After all, this is an election. As I said several times, I want to win. My opponent wants to win. Why don't I say, "Let's have a dollar and a half?" Why not a $2 minimum wage? Why not $5 ? And here you get the basic economic principles. If you raise the minimum wage, in my opinion - and all the experts confirm this that I have talked to in the Government - above $1.15, it would mean unemployment; unemployment, because there are many industries that could not pay more than $1.15 without cutting down their work force; $1.15 can be absorbed, and then at a later time we could move to $1.25 as the economy moves up. QUESTION. This is from Casper Ersburgs, Grace Lutheran Church, Albion, Mich.  What do you think the United States could do and should do to help the Baltic countries - Estonia, Latvia, and the Lithuanian regions - regain the freedom they lost when President Roosevelt was trading favors with Stalin? Vice President NIXON. I would say he is rather prejudiced on this particular point, and prejudiced in the right way. What can we do with regard to these countries, so many of whose citizens live in the United States - former citizens, whose racial background and national background are from these countries - what we can do is limited by a factor that everybody will understand. The United States. the free world, wants freedom for the captive countries. But we cannot become involved in a civil war - a revolution - in these countries. Why not? Because what it would do would be to destroy what remains of these countries and probably destroy the world in the process. Now, what hope does this leave them? Through evolution - evolution; that means through peaceful change - we are confident that the peoples of the captive nations of Eastern Europe will eventually get the freedom that they want and that they deserve. That's why I have advocated a program of having President Eisenhower as well as other former Presidents visit these countries, to keep the hope of freedom alive. That's why, at the conference table, in dealing with Mr. Khrushchev, I would never agree to what he is constantly urging that we agree: that we draw a line through Europe and say that's his side of Europe, and they remain forever captive. The moment we do that, freedom is dead there. What we have to do is constantly negotiate with Khrushchev to get him to take his iron control off of these countries, and I am confident that in the end this can be accomplished if we continue to stand as firmly forthright as he stands forthwrong. QUESTION. From Joyce Herring, 925 Northwest Fourth Avenue, Homestead, Fla.; teacher:  Specifically, what kind of financial aid program do you have planned for helping top students through college who are not financially able? Vice President NIXON. This is a good question, and I'm delighted to spell out my program here, because here again we have a basic difference in the approach my opponent takes and that I take. First, let's begin with the principle. America cannot continue to waste the talents of able young Americans who have the ability to go to college but who can't go because they don't have the money. Now, what are we going to do about it? I was talking to Father Hesburg of Notre Dame last February when I was there to receive the Notre Dame Americanism Award. He told me something that I found hard to believe, but this brings it home That over a hundred young men who were valedictorians of their high school classes applied for scholarships at Notre Dame last year that couldn't be taken in; they didn't have enough scholarships. Now, what can we do about it? The easy answer is to say: Well, this is a problem that the Federal Government has to take over; we'll just have Federal scholarships and loans, period. But that wouldn't be the right answer. And so I have a program that approaches it from three different standpoints. 1. We will have Federal scholarships for some students, too, who do not have the funds and could not borrow the funds or pay it back, and these would be the exceptionally good students. 2. We will have a program of loans for students who will want to borrow money and who would be able to earn the money to pay it back. But, 3, there's one other thing that we can do. I know that there are many parents in this country who did what my parents did. They worked hard in order to put five of us through school. And I think that we should have a program of tax deductions and tax credits to parents, or others who do pay expenditures for their youngsters to go to college. This, in other words, encourages the traditional American do-it-yourself rather than letting the Government do it. So this three-pronged program - the Government doing it where individuals can't do it, but encouraging individuals through tax credits and tax deductions - I think will do the job. Overall, we will see to it that every young American who ought to go to college does go to college, so we don't waste the talents of a potential great scientist, engineer, lawyer, doctor, or shall we say motion picture-television star. QUESTION. I address this to Henry Cabot Lodge. This is from Mrs. William Boomfield, 706 Fairway Drive, Royal Oak, Mich.:  What are your feelings toward nations wanting to remain neutral in cold war? How can we help them? Mr. LODGE. Mrs. Bloomfield, I would say that there's nothing inconsistent with the best interests of the United States in countries not wishing to get committed in the struggle which the Soviet Union forces on us. I believe in the case of India, for example, that our relations with India, which have improved very much in the last few years, are in a satisfactory state. I think we've got to recognize that the world is a very diverse place. Each nation is really a separate proposition. You can't broadly divide the world into your opponents and your allies and the neutrals. It isn't that simple. I think we can have very good relations with countries that are not allied to us, and I believe that many countries which are not allied to us would, in case the world struggle got worse, find themselves on our side. QUESTION. This is from Allen McGovern, 3175 Helen, Detroit What would you do to lessen the tension that now exists between the Arab countries and Israel? Mr. LODGE. Vice President Nixon has announced that if elected he will give me the job of trying to get an overall settlement of what is known in diplomacy as the Palestine question - that is, the relations of Israel with her Arab neighbors - and that would involve the resettlement of the refugees, it would involve the waters of the Jordan, and all these pertinent questions. Now, I'm not going to say that that's going to be an easy thing to do, because we know it's full of very stubborn difficulties. But I will say that when we got a resolution through the United Nations General Assembly in February 1957 by a two-thirds vote, which is hard to get, which stationed a United Nations force in the Gaza strip, and at the entrance to the Gulf of Aqaba, which had been these disorderly and violent places which caused so much trouble, we showed that it was possible to make some progress and to get at some of the basic causes of the difficulty. Because we never would have had a two-thirds vote in the General Assembly if the Arab States had been opposed to it. 
