Today, the Senate takes the first step in a bipartisan effort to prevent the escalation of the war in Iraq - and to adopt a new strategy for leaving Iraq without leaving chaos behind.That first step is to debate and vote on the resolution offered by Senator Warner, and re-introduced by Senator Levin and me as a bill, that says that the Senate disagrees with the President's plan to send 17,500 more American troops into the middle of a civil war in Baghdad.The question before us today is whether a minority of Senators will even allow the debate to start. That's what we are about to vote on.To my colleagues who are thinking about trying to block debate, let me say this: Iraq dominates our national life. It is on the minds of tens of millions of Americans. It shapes the lives of hundreds of thousands of our men and women in uniform and their families.That the Senate would not even debate, much less vote on, the single most urgent issue of our time, would be a total forfeiture of our responsibility. We have a duty to debate and vote on the President's plan. We have a duty to debate and vote on our overall strategy in Iraq. And we have the duty as United States Senators to demonstrate the courage of our convictions.Three weeks ago, Secretary of State Rice presented the President's plan for Iraq to the Foreign Relations Committee. Its main feature is to send more American troops into Baghdad, in the middle of a sectarian war. The reaction on the Committee, from Republicans and Democrats alike, ranged from skepticism to profound skepticism to outright opposition. And that pretty much reflects the reaction all across the country.Senator Hagel, Senator Levin, Senator Snowe and I wrote a resolution to give Senators a way to vote what their voices were saying. We believe that the quickest, most effective way to get the President to change course is to demonstrate to him that his policy has little or no support across the board.After we introduced our resolution, Senator Warner came forward with his. The bottom line of our resolutions is the same: Mr. President, don't send more Americans into the middle of civil war.There was one critical difference. As originally written, Senator Warner's resolution left open the possibility of increasing the overall number of American troops in Iraq. We believed that would send the wrong message.We should be drawing down, not ramping up, and redeploying our forces that remain in Iraq. That's the best way to make it clear to the Iraqi leaders that they must begin to make the hard compromises necessary for the political solution virtually everyone agrees is necessary. We approached Senator Warner to work out the differences. I am very pleased to say that we succeeded in doing just that.The language Senator Warner removed from his resolution removed the possibility that it could be read as calling for more U.S. troops in Iraq. With that change, we agreed to support his resolution.When I first spoke out against the President's planned surge before the New Year, I made it clear that I hoped to build and demonstrate bi-partisan opposition to his plan because that was the fastest way to turn him around. And that is exactly what we have done.Now, we have a real opportunity for the Senate to speak clearly. Every Senator should be given a chance to vote whether he or she approves or disapproves with the President's plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war. The debate we will have is as important as the vote. I hope the American people listen carefully.I predict they will hear very few of our colleagues stand up and support the President's plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war. Listen to the voices - as well as the votes.Just as important as what we are voting against, is what we are voting for.This bill, like the Biden-Hagel-Levin-Snowe bill makes three things clear. First, Iraq needs a political settlement to end the sectarian violence. Second, the United States must work with other nations to develop a "regional, internationally-sponsored peace and reconciliation process for Iraq." Third, the mission of US armed forces should be confined to counter-terrorism, training, and maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq. The mission should not include policing a sectarian civil war. That will require significantly fewer troops than we have inIraq now.As I said at the outset, this is a first step. But it can set the foundation for everything that follows. If the President does not listen to the majority of Congress and the majority of the American people, we will look at other ways to turn the surge around.Even if we succeed in that effort, we still need to turn our overall Iraq policy around. We need a strategy that can produce a political settlement in Iraq. That's the only way to stop Shiites and Sunnis from killing each other and to allow our troops to leave Iraq without trading a dictator for chaos.I have proposed just such a strategy, and I'll have more to say about it in the days ahead.But for today, my message is simple: the American people want us to debate Iraq, the most important issue of our day. They expect it. They demand it. If we try to hide behind procedure and delaying tactics, the American people will hold us accountable. They get it.The question is: do we?Are we for or against the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq? I am against it and I believe the majority of my colleagues are as well.
This is a time of tremendous challenge for America in the world. We must contend with the on-going war in Afghanistan, the genocide in Darfur, nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea, the rise of China and re-emergence Russia, the growing insecurity of our energy supply, the fragility of our climate, and the threat posed by radical fundamentalism. But one issue dominates our national debate: Iraq. If we deal with it successfully, we can recover the freedom, flexibility and credibility to meet these other challenges.Thats what I want to talk about today. * * *Listen to the debate about Iraq here in Washington. It centers on a false choice that is also a bad choice: Do we continue on President Bushs failing course and hand off Iraq to the next President? Or do we just leave and hope for the best? I believe there is a better choice. It is still possible to bring our troops home without trading a dictator for chaos that engulfs Iraq and spreads to the Middle East. That must be our goal.* * *Leaving Iraq is necessary -- but it is not a plan. We also need a plan for what we leave behind. Nine months ago, with Les Gelb of the Council on Foreign Relations, I proposed just such a plan. Go to planforiraq.com. to read its details.Our plan recognizes that there is no purely military exit strategy from Iraq. Instead, we set out a roadmap to a political settlement in Iraq -- one that gives its warring factions a way to share power peacefully and offers us a chance to leave with our interests intact. The plan has five major pieces. First, maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in regions as the Iraqi constitution provides. The central government would be responsible for common concerns, like guarding Iraqs borders and distributing its oil revenues. Second, secure support from the Sunnis who have no oil by guaranteeing them a fair share of oil revenues. Allow former Baath party members to go back to work and reintegrate Sunnis with no blood on their hands. Third, increase economic assistance to Iraq and its regions. Insist that the oil-rich Gulf states put up most of the money, tie it to the protection of minority rights, and create a major jobs program to deny the militia new recruits.Fourth, initiate a major diplomatic offensive to enlist the support of Iraqs neighbors. Create an oversight group of the U.N. and the major powers to enforce their commitments. These countries have a profound stake in preventing chaos in Iraq and the credibility we lack to press for compromise by all Iraqis. If a political settlement fails to take hold, these same countries are vital to any strategy to contain the fall out within Iraq. Fifth, instruct the military to draw up plans for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq by 2008. Leave behind a small force to take on terrorists and train Iraqis. The best way to focus Iraqs leaders on the political compromises they must make is to make it clear to them that we are leaving. * * *Many of you have heard me talk about this plan before. Whats new is the growing support its receiving. That support was evident during the four weeks of hearings we just held in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. It is evident in the new National Intelligence Estimate for Iraq a consensus report of all U.S. intelligence agencies. The NIE and virtually all of our witnesses agreed that the fundamental problem in Iraq is self-sustaining sectarian violence. Yes, jihadists, Baathists, criminal gangs and intra-sect violence all contribute to the growing chaos. But Sunnis killing Shiites and Shiites killing Sunnis is the heart of the matter. Thats what we have to stop if we want to leave Iraq with our interests intact.How do we stop this sectarian cycle of revenge? If history is any guide, we have to wait until one side wins or both sides exhaust themselves. That could take years of bloodletting... years that we do not have. History also suggests it is possible to short circuit sectarian strife. A decade ago, Bosnia was being torn apart by ethnic cleansing, which threatened to engulf the Balkans. The United States stepped in with Dayton Accords, which kept the country whole by, paradoxically, dividing it into ethnic federations. Muslims, Croats and Serbs retained separate armies and presidents. Since then, Bosnians have lived a decade in peace. Now, they are slowly coming back together. Iraq presents a similar possibility. Heres what the National Intelligence Estimate says we need: Broader Sunni acceptance of the current political structure and federalism [and] significant concessions by Shia and Kurds to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism. That is exactly the strategy behind the Biden-Gelb plan. During our hearings, witness after witness including former secretaries of states, foreign policy experts, and elected officials -- came to a similar conclusion. So have a growing number of opinion makers. What more and more people are beginning to recognize is that there are very few possible futures for Iraq in the near term and only one that protects Americas interests. * * *Think for a minute about Iraqs possible futures. The Bush administration has one vision: that Iraqis will rally behind a strong, democratic central government that keeps the country together and protects the rights of all citizens equally. But since the Samarra Mosque bombing a year ago, that vision has been engulfed by the flames of sectarian hatred. The hard truth in Iraq is that there is no trust within the central government no trust of the government by the people and no capacity by the government to deliver services and security. And there is no evidence none that we can build that trust and capacity any time soon. There are two other ways to govern Iraq from the center: A foreign occupation that the United States cannot long sustain. Or the return of a strongman, who is not on the horizon. Even if he were, replacing one dictator with another would require a savagery to rival Saddams worst excesses.So where does that leave us?It leaves us with an idea a large majority of Iraqis have already endorsed in their constitution and that our plan would help make a reality: federalism. Federalism would keep Iraq together by vesting real power in the regions. It would bring decisions and responsibility down to the local level and give Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds control over the fabric of their daily lives: security, education, marriage, jobs. Very few have read Iraqs constitution. Fewer still understand that legislation to implement its articles on federalism takes effect in 15 months. Federalism is Iraqs best possible future. But unless we help make federalism work for all Iraqis, the violence will not stop. We have to convince the major powers and Iraqs neighbors that a federal Iraq is the best possible outcome for them, too, and to put their weight and influence behind it. Then, together, we have to bring in the Sunnis and convince the Shiites and Kurds to make concessions. That is what the Biden-Gelb plan proposes. It demands the kind of sustained, hard headed diplomacy for which this administration has shown little interest or aptitude. But it offers the possibility not the guarantee of producing a soft landing in Iraq. If we fail to make federalism work, there will be no political accommodation at the center. Violent resistance will increase. The sectarian cycle of revenge will spiral out of control. At best, the result likely will be the violent break up of Iraq into multiple failed states. At worst, the result will be Iraqs total fragmentation into warring fiefdoms. The neighbors will not sit on the sidelines. Already, Iraq has aggravated a deep Sunni-Shiite divide that runs from Lebanon through Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. This fault-line intersects with other cultural and political rifts between Arabs and Persians, Turks and Kurds, jihadis and the Muslim mainstream to create the conditions for a cataclysmic explosion. Iran and the Arab states will back Shia and Sunni extremists as part of a proxy war. Eventually, they will intervene directly. Sunni Jihadis will flood Iraq to confront the Persian and Shia threat, creating a new haven for terrorists. Turkey will move into the North to crush Kurdish ambitions. Sunni-Shia tensions will rise from Beirut to Karachi. Individually, these would be bad developments. Together, they would do terrible damage to American interests. We must lead a determined regional and international effort to end the Iraqi civil war, or contain it if we cant. * * *The Bush administration is heading in exactly the wrong direction. Instead of a diplomatic and political offensive to forge a political settlement, it proposes a military offensive that would send 17,500 Americans into the middle of a sectarian conflict in a city of 6.2 million people. This military surge in Iraq is not a solution it is a tragic mistake. If we should be surging forces anywhere, it is in Afghanistan. Im glad the President has recognized what many of us have been saying for years: unless we surge troops, hardware, money, and high-level attention into Afghanistan, it will fall back into the hands of the Taliban, terrorists and drug traffickers. I support the steps he announced today but I hope they are the first steps not the last in a recommitment to Afghanistan. * * *The House is about to pronounce itself on the Presidents surge plan for Iraq and the Senate will, too.Some minimize the significance of a non-binding resolution. If it is so meaningless, why did the White House and the Presidents political supporters mobilize so much energy against it? Opposing the surge is only a first step. We need a radical change in course in Iraq. If the President wont act, Congress will. But Congress must act responsibly. We must resist the temptation to push for changes that sound good but produce bad results. The best next step is to revisit the authorization Congress granted the President in 2002 to use force in Iraq. Thats exactly what Im doing. We gave the President that power to destroy Iraqs weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to depose Saddam Hussein. The WMD were not there. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. The 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq. I am working on legislation to repeal that authorization and replace it with a much narrower mission statement for our troops in Iraq. Congress should make clear what the mission of our troops is: to responsibly draw down, while continuing to combat terrorists, train Iraqis and respond to emergencies. We should make equally clear what their mission is not: to stay in Iraq indefinitely and get mired in a savage civil war. Coupled with the Biden-Gelb plan, I believe this is the most effective way to start bringing our troops home without leaving a mess behind. * * *I want to leave you with one thought. For our sake and for the sake of the Iraqi people, we should be focused on how we get out of Iraq with our interests intact.Everyone wants to bring our troops home as soon and as safely as possible. But tempting as it is, we cant just throw up our hands, blame the President for misusing the authority we gave him, and walk away without a plan for what we leave behind. So Ill end where I began.Leaving Iraq is a necessity, but it is not a plan. We need a plan for what we leave behind. That is what I have offered. To those who disagree with my plan, I have one simple question: what is your alternative?
Success in Afghanistan is Still Possible if We Surge Forces Anywhere, it Should be in Afghanistan, not Iraq.Today we face an issue at the very heart of our war on terror: the deteriorating security conditions in Afghanistan. If current trends continue, we may soon find that our hard-won success on the battlefield has melted away.I didnt write these words in preparation for this mornings hearing. I spoke them nearly five years ago, on the floor of the United States Senate. [May 17, 2002]Im not bringing up old quotes to say, I told you so, but to make a simple point: the situation in Afghanistan is not an unforeseen circumstance. Plenty of military and civilian officials have been predicting exactly this outcome for years. Whats the state of play? Osama bin Laden remains at large, right across the border in Pakistan in all probability. There are reports that hes reconstituted his terrorist training camps. Given the chance to kill him at Tora Bora, the administration instead pulled most of our Special Forces, our CIA teams and Predators and sent them to Iraq.The Taliban is back -- and keeping much of Afghanistan ungovernable. Suicide bombings, IEDs and other techniques imported from Iraq made last year the bloodiest since their ouster. The government of Pakistan turns a blind eye to the Taliban cross-border attacks, and to the high command based in Quetta. Just last year, the government signed a separate peace with pro-Taliban militias in Waziristan. Afghan reconstruction is stuck in first gear. President Bush promised a Marshall Plan, but he's delivered less development aid in the past five years than we spend on the war in Iraq every three weeks.Last year Afghanistan produced 92% of the worlds opium. The proceeds prop up the Taliban, warlords and corrupt officials. Theres no serious counter-narcotics program. If the Administration pursues a poorly-conceived aerial poppy eradication plan, the results could be even worse.Dont get me wrongweve accomplished some great things. Because of our efforts, millions of Afghan children are in school today. Weve built roads and clinics. Weve got American troops in Provincial Reconstruction Teams showing that the US military can be a wonderful friend as well as a fearsome enemy.President Bush last month made two encouraging statements. First, he announced the deployment of an additional combat brigade to Afghanistan. This is important, because our NATO commanders desperately need not only several thousand battle-ready troops, but the helicopters, transport aircraft, and other military hardware that go with them. Second, he pledged $11.8 billion in new funding over the next two years. If these figures represent new funding in addition to currently-budgeted numbers, and if we focus on projects which bring real improvement to the lives of ordinary Afghansthis may be the start of a more successful strategy.I certainly hope so. Because in Afghanistan, success still is possible. Failure is not thinkable. How can we turn things around? Very briefly, we need to do three things:First, establish security. If we should be surging forces anywhere, its in Afghanistan, not Iraq. NATO troops are necessary, but not sufficient. Weve also got to train the Afghan police and armywhich means, for starters, paying them decent salaries. Second, we have get moving on reconstruction. We need more funds, and we need to use them better. The Afghans are patient, but theyre not seeing reconstruction worthy of a superpower. As Gen. Eikenberry has said, Where the road ends, the Taliban begins.Third, do counter-narcotics right. We should target multimillion-dollar drug kingpins, not the dollar-a-day opium farmers. Someday aerial eradication may have a placebut not until weve got alternate livelihoods set up for those growing poppy, and a judicial system capable of taking down the drug barons. Until then, we should focus on the top of the food-chain, not the bottom. We have three witnesses today who can explain these issues in detail, with authority and expertise. First, we have Richard Boucher the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia. We all know and respect him as a straight shooter.Next we have Gen. James Jones who recently retired from the U.S. Marine Corps. Gen. Jones was the commander of NATO until early this year, and he supervised the Alliances expansion to include responsibility for all of Afghanistan. And then we have Ambassador James Dobbins, currently at the RAND Corporation, who has served as Special Envoy for Afghanistan. In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, he served as liaison to the Afghan forces fighting alongside our troops to bring down the Taliban. Gentlemen welcome and Ill now turn it over to Sen. Lugar for his opening statement.
Since before our founding, the United States has been set apart by its uncompromising commitment to the rule of law and individual rights and civil liberties. The values embodied in our constitutional government have been the pole star by which the world has set its moral compass. They have given us the moral authority to lead our allies, and to defeat fascism and communism. In the aftermath of September 11, as the world mourned with us, we had an opportunity to lead again. The world looked to us to form a new coalition to face the threat of international terrorism and defend the very values the terrorists had attacked. Regrettably, the Bush Administration saw it differently. The President accepted a Faustian bargain. He abandoned our uncompromising commitment to the rule of law and individual rights in the belief that it was the only way to secure the United States against the threat of terrorism. My firm belief and absolute conviction is that this Faustian bargain has had the ironic effect of making us less safe, not more safe; emboldened terrorists, not dissuaded them, and diminished us in the eyes of our friends and allies. As I said on September 11the terrorists win when we abandon our civil liberties. We need not change our national character in order to defeat terrorism. As a matter of fact, we are already defeated by the terrorists if we change our character. As a young Senator in 1977, I remember hearing Richard Nixon, who had resigned in disgrace less than three years earlier, comment on the President's duty to obey the law. He said: When the President does it that means that it is not illegal. His statement was breathtaking in its disregard for the rule of law and our constitutional system of checks and balances, but I was convinced that this was the only time in my life I would hear a President defend his actions on the grounds that he was above the law. 30 years later, here I am once again with a President claiming that because its a time of war our laws and traditions do not apply to him. I will address today five aspects of his policy that subvert our constitutional principles and make us less safe at home and weaker abroad: the acceptance of what amounts to torture, the practice of extraordinary rendition, the operation of secret prisons, the unwarranted surveillance of Americans, and the revocation of habeas corpus. I will argue that by redefining what constitutes torture, redefining international treaty obligations, and operating secret prisons, he has squandered the support of the world and the opportunity to lead it. And here at home the overly broad definition of inherent Presidential power in the time of war has undermined the basic civil liberties of American citizens. TortureHistorically, the United States has advocated outlawing torture. We played a central role in drafting the Geneva Conventions and negotiating the Convention Against Torture. And we have enacted domestic laws to severely punish those who torture. And with good reason beyond the obvious morale imperative.Our efforts to outlaw torture were designed to protect the hundreds of thousands of Americans soldiers overseas by giving us the moral authority to demand that those who are captured be treated humanely. After September 11, the President, for all intent and purpose, abandoned our historical opposition to torture. The sophistry engaged in by the Justice Department allowed his Administration to establish two new pillars of a policy regarding torture. The first narrowed the definition of torture to conduct that causes serious physical injury, such as organ failure, impairment of bodily function, or even death. It created a wide class of permissible mistreatment that though [it] might constitute cruel, inhumane, or degrading treatment . . . failed to rise to the level of torture. The second exempted the President, as Commander-in-Chief, from these laws and allowed him to use torture, even though illegal, if he deems it necessary. Emboldened by this analysis, the President allowed his Administration to engage in practices that the rest of the world regarded as torture but he had defined as permissible. A solider who recently served in Afghanistan and Iraq sent the following statement to a Senator: Some argue that since our actions are not as horrifying as Al Qaedas, we should not be concerned. When did Al Qaeda become any type of standard by which we measure the morality of the United States? We are America, and our actions should be held to a higher standard. . . . I would rather die fighting than give up even the smallest part of the idea that is America.The President's policy has damaged Americas image, alienated some of our closest partners, and given significant ammunition to the most extreme terrorists to attract new recruits. The President's policy has also led to inexcusable blunders. The Administration used information obtained from detained Al Qaeda members, who under coercion, asserted that Iraq had trained Al Qaeda operatives to make and use weapons of mass destruction. He cited this information repeatedly to justify taking us to war in Iraq. This information, like almost all information that was coerced, was false. The source told his interrogators what they wanted to hear to stop the coercion. And as I said earlier, the President's policy has provided fodder to Al Qaedas propagandists and recruiters, who have broadcast images of the atrocities at Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib around the world. Imagine if an American soldier were captured by Al Qaeda. Now --- what moral authority do we have now to demand that they treat our soldiers humanely?Its time for us to stop this behavior and comply with our international treaty obligations. I call upon the President today to comply with our domestic law and our international treaty obligations. Mr. President, the American people and the world have had enough of the equivocations and loop holes on this subject. It is time for you to state clearly that we will abide by our international obligations and our policy will reflect our national values. Extraordinary RenditionA policy of kidnapping a suspect and transporting him to a country that we know to use torture or secret site for interrogation is a practice called extraordinary rendition and historically been an anathema to our national values. And although there is a place in the war on terror for rendition to justice, where a suspect is sent to another country to face trial, the use of extraordinary rendition, or rendition to a country that we know uses torture, is out of bounds and counterproductive. As one expert noted, [e]very country to which the United States has rendered a terrorism suspect since 9/11 has been [recognized by the State Department as] a persistent and egregious violator of human rights.To add insult to injury, the President has claimed that his authority as Commander-in-Chief includes the power to order extraordinary rendition and that such an order is not subject to review by our courts or oversight by Congress. The President's abuse of rendition has diminished our moral stature and sapped popular support for the United States around the world, making it difficult to get from foreign partners the cooperation and intelligence we need to effectively fight terrorism. Shortly after Italy indicted 25 CIA agents for a 2003 rendition, Italian citizens took to the streets to protest the expansion of an American military base. A Canadian Government commission censured the United States and Canada has been reticent to share intelligence with us ever since. Germany issued arrest warrants for 13 CIA agents. And Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and the Council of Europe are all investigating U.S. renditions within their jurisdictions.There is also strong evidence that the Administrations policy has strengthened the position of oppressive and anti-democratic security services in countries like Syria and Egypt. If our own security services engage in extra-legal kidnapping, detention, and mistreatment, how can we criticize foreign security services that use the same tactics to suppress democratic reform? As President, I will stop this practice. Secret PrisonsSome of those rendered are not turned over to brutal foreign regimes, but are held by American security services in secret prisons or black sites. The President has attempted to hide these facilities from the American people and from the world. To ensure that his actions were once again beyond the reach of U.S. law, the President has located these facilities abroad. Legal experts have opined, however, that these prisons often violate the laws of the countries in which they are located. And after press coverage has sparked outrage, the President has been forced to close several of them. Some who have been released from black sites and several international human rights organizations have alleged that the CIA uses brutal techniques at these sites, including waterboarding. What kind of example are we setting for the world with such base behavior?The President has guarded this secret prison system so closely we still know little about it. The President only disclosed the existence of the black site program after the press broke the story. As the existence of these black sites, and the techniques used in them have become known, they have become one of Al Qaedas most effective recruiting tools. According to unclassified reporting on last years National Intelligence Estimate, the abuses that occur at these secret prisons and at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay have stoked the jihad movement. Mr. President, the American people are tired of half-truths. Close the black sites that are a black stain on the name of America, and close Guantanamo and bulldoze Abu Ghraib to the ground. Warrantless Wiretapping & National Security LettersThe President's misguided policy of attempting to protect America by violating our fundamental notions of constitutional governance and individual rights and liberties has not been confined to actions abroad. The President has also engaged in such practices here at home, including his notorious warrantless wiretapping program and his abuse of authority under the Patriot Act. He has secretly eavesdropped on Americans without Congressional authorization or a judicial approval. We fought the American Revolution in part to free ourselves of intrusions on our privacy without probably cause. The Fourth Amendment guarantees freedom from unreasonable government searches and seizures and permits a judge to issue a warrant only after finding probable cause. It stands as a bulwark against arbitrary government invasions of our privacy, and the President is bound by it even as we fight terrorism. President Bush appears to have no patience for the Fourth Amendment and a caviler of Americans rights and liberties. We wont defeat terrorism by destroying the Bill of Rights. In 1928 Justice Brandeis warned that other instruments of executive power were but puny instruments of tyranny and oppression when compared with wire tapping. Justice Holmes described wiretapping as a dirty business. They were prescient. In 1976, a Senate Committee chaired by Frank Church uncovered shocking civil liberties abuses that had occurred during decades of extra-legal surveillance. To ensure that this would never happen again, the Church Committee recommended reforms. In 1978, as a member of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, I helped fashion the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which enacted many of the Committees recommendations. Ninety-four colleagues from both sides of the aisle voted to pass FISA.FISA ensured that the President retained the necessary tools to protect national security and collect foreign intelligence without violating Americans civil liberties. In other words, we created a framework for protecting national security and Americans privacy. FISA established a court that could examine classified evidence and issue wiretap orders. We tailored the standard for FISA wiretaps to the national security threat. Instead of showing probable cause, FISA required the government to show that the subject of the warrant was a suspected terrorist or spy. To ensure national security, we included exceptions: one allows the President to wiretap a terrorist suspect in an emergency prior to obtaining a warrant, as long as he obtains a warrant within 72 hours, and a second suspends the warrant requirement for 15 days after a Congressional declaration of war. We also took pains to make clear FISA was the exclusive means by which the President could conduct national security surveillance; FISA unambiguously prohibits all such surveillance not authorized by statute. I have argued from the beginning that the President could conduct surveillance of suspected terrorists while complying with FISA. He has chosen instead to ignore FISAs clear prohibition on warrantless surveillance, arguing that he has inherent constitutional authority to conduct surveillance for national security purposes. By so doing, he has knowingly and willfully violated the law and Americans privacy, offering the same arrogant justification as President Nixon that he is above the law. It was only after the Democratic Party regained control of Congress that the Administration reluctantly subjected its surveillance program to FISA court review. Through strong congressional oversight, we need to ensure that the FISA court retains jurisdiction over all the President's surveillance programs. And folks, a clear lesson can be drawn from this elections matter! The President has also abused the authority Congress gave him under the PATRIOT Act to issue National Security Letters. FBI officials issue these letters without judicial review to demand sensitive financial, credit, phone, and Internet records. Last month, a Congressionally mandated audit revealed that the FBI has made frequent errors in its use of National Security Letters, sometimes getting information about the wrong people and sometimes getting information its not entitled to under the statute. A Biden administration would fight terrorism without destroying the very values were fighting to preserve. I would require a United States Attorney to approve the use of National Security Letters, to ensure that the government gets the information it needs without sacrificing our privacy. Depriving Terror Detainees of Habeas CorpusContinuing with his assault on individual rights and liberties in the name of national security, the President has also deprived terrorism detainees of the most cherished right in our constitutional system habeas corpus. Habeas corpus is a Latin term, meaning to render the body. It was conceived to prevent someone from being locked up erroneously or illegally, with no chance to contest his imprisonment. But lets be clear: It is not a get out of jail free card. And it will not result in the release of dangerous terrorists. Habeas corpus is a judicial safeguard that predates our constitutional democracy. It was among British subjects chief demands of King John on the field at Runnymede in 1215, as reflected in the Magna Carta. Alexander Hamilton described habeas corpus in the Federalist Papers as among the greatest securities to liberty and republicanism that the Constitution contains. While the Framers relegated most individual rights to subsequent amendments in the Bill of Rights, they included habeas corpus in the body of the Constitution itself.In a war where many of our detainees were not captured on a battlefield by U.S. forces and were not wearing military uniforms, habeas corpus is an indispensable safeguard against erroneous detention. But perhaps most importantly, habeas corpus ensures that if the United States detains someone, it does so with full respect for the Constitution and the rule of law.The President has nonetheless stripped detainees of this fundamental safeguard. His efforts to deprive detainees of habeas have been repudiated three times by a Supreme Court dominated by Republican nominees. But still he persists. As a result, nations around the world view Guantanamo not as a facility necessitated by the war on terror, but as a symbol of American disregard for the rule of law. Our enemies have used it and Abu Ghraib to recruit additional terrorists. These prisons have become symbols of American duplicity, not beacons of American justice once again, we should raze Abu Ghraib.We should not wait for another Supreme Court decision. We should immediately move to restore habeas and, as I have said before, we should shut Guantanamo down. ConclusionThe President responded to September 11, in an effort to make us safer, by cutting deeply into Americans most cherished rights and liberties and running roughshod over constitutional limitations on Presidential power. But as the Supreme Court recently held, a state of war is not a blank check for the President when it comes to the rights of the Nations citizens.The President's irresponsible use of power is inexcusable. It is time for Congress to re-assert our constitutional role, and exercise strict oversight over the President's policies. It is time to reestablish our moral stature in the world and mend our most important foreign relationships. It is time to send a clear message to our citizens, to our men and women in uniform, and to people around the world, that we are a nation of laws and not men. That we do not choose between security and liberty, we demand both. That we neither condone torture, nor kidnap people and send them to other countries to be tortured. Sending this message will be the first step toward restoring our constitutional balance, reaffirming our individual rights and liberties, and renewing our moral leadership in the world.
I want to thank the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins and the Financial Times for bringing us here tonight.Iraq dominates our national debate. I believe it deserves at least one debate of its own among those running for President. So I was very pleased when the FT and SAIS invited us to a debate exclusively on Iraq. Im disappointed that most of my colleagues declined to join me, especially before such an informed audience. But maybe together, even without the others, we can advance the national debate on Iraq.* * *Every Democrat running for President agrees: the war in Iraq must end. But it matters profoundly how we end it. It matters to our soldiers. It matters to Iraqis. And it matters to Americas future security.I have a comprehensive strategy to end the war responsibly. It has three parts: (i) a roadmap to bring most of our troops home next year; (ii) a detailed plan for what we leave behind; and (iii) a commitment that, so long as a single American soldier remains in Iraq, we will do everything in our power to protect him.Each piece is critical. It is not enough to do one without the others. Let me talk about each part of my comprehensive approach.I. Bring the Troops Home First, instead of escalating the war with no end in sight, we have to start to bring our troops home now, and withdraw most of them next year.The best way to do that is to repeal the 2002 authorization to use force in Iraq. We gave the president that power to destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to end Saddam Hussein's regime. The WMD were not there and Saddam is no longer there. The 2002 authorization is totally irrelevant to the reality of Iraq.In its place, we should dramatically limit the mission of our troops in Iraq to get them out of the middle of a sectarian civil war and to focus them on the much narrower, achievable and necessary mission of denying Al Qaeda territory, training Iraqis and protecting themselves.If we limit the mission in that way, there will be no need to keep anywhere near 150,000 Americans in Iraq especially at a time when our military is dangerously over-stretched, threatening the readiness, retention and recruitment of our armed forces and their ability to deal with other hot spots.Two weeks ago, I introduced a law to repeal the 2002 use of force authorization, to transition the mission of our troops and to bring most of our forces home next year. I will push relentlessly until Republicans stop supporting the President and start backing a responsible path out of Iraq. That's how we will end this war.II. A Plan for What We Leave BehindGetting our troops out of Iraq is necessary but it is not enough.We also need a plan for what we leave behind, so that we don't trade a dictator for chaos in Iraq and the Middle East. If that happens, we may get our children out but their children will have to go back in.Every Democrat agrees that there is no purely military solution for Iraq. We need a political settlement that brings stability to Iraq.Despite that broad agreement, only two people have offered a detailed plan to produce such a settlement. Im one of them. The other is Les Gelb of the Council on Foreign Relations. Together, a year ago, we proposed a detailed plan for a political settlement in Iraq. Go to planforiraq.com. to read its details.The fundamental problem in Iraq is self-sustaining sectarian violence. Sunnis killing Shiites, and Shiites killing Sunnis is the heart of the matter. History suggests that there are four ways to stop a sectarian cycle of revenge. First, a bloodletting that leaves one side victorious or both sides exhausted. In the case of Iraq, that could take years years we do not have and should not accept.Second, an open-ended foreign occupation that America cannot sustain.Third, the return of a strongman, who is not on the horizon. Even if he were, it would be a tragic irony to replace one dictator with another. Or fourth, a political agreement to form a decentralized, federal system of government that separates the warring factions and gives them breathing room in their own regions. A decade ago, I was deeply involved in trying to shape our policy toward Bosnia. That country was being torn apart by ethnic cleansing, which threatened to engulf the Balkans. The U.S. stepped in with the Dayton Accords. They kept the country whole by, paradoxically, dividing it into ethnic federations. Muslims, Croats and Serbs retained separate armies and presidents. Since then, Bosnians have lived a decade in peace. Now, they are slowly coming back together.Iraq presents a similar possibility... and the only opportunity we have left.* * *Our plan has five major pieces.First, maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it as the Iraqi constitution provides -- and bringing decisions down to the local level. Give Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds control over the fabric of their daily lives: security, education, marriage, jobs. Limit the central government to common concerns, like guarding Iraq's borders and distributing its oil revenues.Second, secure support from the Sunnis who have no oil by guaranteeing them a fair share of oil revenues. Third, increase, don't end, economic assistance to Iraq and its regions. Insist that oil-rich Gulf states put up most of the money ... tie it to the protection of minority rights... and create a major jobs program to deny the militia new recruits.Fourth, initiate a major diplomatic offensive to enlist the support of the worlds major powers and Iraq's neighbors for a political settlement. Create an oversight group at the U.N. to enforce the neighbors commitments. These countries have a profound stake in preventing chaos in Iraq -- and the credibility we lack to press for compromise by all Iraqis. Fifth, instruct the U.S. military to draw up plans for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq by 2008. Leave behind a small force to take on terrorists and train Iraqis. If we fail to make federalism work, there will be no political accommodation at the center. Violent resistance will increase. The sectarian cycle of revenge will spiral out of control. The result will be at best the violent break up of Iraq into multiple states at worst the total fragmentation of the country. The neighbors will not sit on the sidelines. Already, Iraq has aggravated a deep Sunni-Shiite divide that runs from Lebanon through the Gulf States and into south Asia. This fault-line intersects with other cultural and political rifts between Arabs and Persians ...Turks and Kurds ... jihadis and moderates to create the conditions for an explosion. That would do terrible damage to American interests.  Federalism is our best hope for stability in Iraq and the region. It offers the possibility not the guarantee of producing a soft landing. Senators Sam Brownback, Barbara Boxer, Bill Nelson, Gordon Smith and I will introduce a bi-partisan bill to make it U.S. policy to actively support a political settlement in Iraq based on a federal system.* * *The Bush administration has another vision for Iraq. But the entire premise of its policy is fundamentally and fatally flawed.It believes Iraqis will rally behind a strong central government that keeps the country together and protects the rights of all citizens equally.But there is no trust within the central government... no trust of the government by the people... and no capacity by the government to deliver services and security. And there is no evidence none that we can build that trust and capacity any time soon.Unfortunately, even some of my Democratic colleagues share this same flawed premise, though it leads them to a very different prescription. Whereas the President is escalating the war to give the central government a chance to succeed, some of my colleagues believe that the mere fact of pulling our troops out will force the central government to act responsibly. They, too, buy into the fallacy that Iraq can be run from the center and that it will be as soon as we take the training wheels off. They, too, are wrong. Escalating the war -- or ending it without a clear plan for what we leave behind is not the way to protect Americas interests. III. Protect Every SoldierI'll conclude with the third piece of my comprehensive strategy to end the war in Iraq. It is this: so long as we have a single soldier left in Iraq, it is our most sacred responsibility to give him the best protection this country can provide.That's why I voted for the emergency Supplemental bill two weeks ago.Without the money it provides, we wont be able to build and send to Iraq things like Mine Resistant vehicles that I have been fighting to fund. Roadside bombs are responsible for 70 percent of American casualties and deaths in Iraq. These mine resistant vehicles offer 4 to 5 times the protection of a Humvee they can cut casualties and deaths by seventy percent. I fought to front load money in the emergency spending bill for these vehicles. I convinced my colleagues to back me. As a result, we will get 2,500 more of these vehicles to Iraq by the end of the year than we otherwise would have.To delay building them by weeks or months to make a political point that would not have ended the war would have been unconscionable.The President may be prepared to play a game of political chicken with the safety of our soldiers. I am not and I will not.* * *Let me conclude where I started. The war in Iraq must end. But it matters profoundly how we end it. I'm proposing a comprehensive strategy to bring our troops home, to leave behind a stable Iraq and to protect our men and women in uniform so long as a single one of them remains in Iraq.This is the strategy I would implement as President. But by the time I become President, it will almost certainly be too late. We need to move on this strategy now. If we don't, then our only option will be to disengage completely and try to contain the fall out within Iraq.But let me leave that strategy for another day and turn to your questions and comments. Thanks for listening.
Wilmington, DE (September 13, 2007): Today during a campaign swing through western Iowa and Nebraska, Sen. Joe Biden made the following remarks in advance of President Bush's address tonight on the war in Iraq.(As Prepared For Delivery)Tonight, President Bush will give the American people a progress report on the war in Iraq.This war belongs to the President, not to his generals or his ambassadors.It is the President's time - and his responsibility - to answer a question that the general carrying out his policies in Iraq could not answer: is pressing ahead with the war making America safer?Based on everything we heard this week from the President's surrogates and everything I have seen and heard during my eight trips to Iraq, the answer is no.The President's strategy in Iraq is not succeeding. It is not making America safer. Doing more of the same would be a disaster.The President's strategy is to stand up Iraq security forces so that we can stand down. But four years and $20 billion later, the Iraqi army is still years away from being ready to take over. The Iraqi national police force is so corrupt and so sectarian that one of our most respected military leaders, General Jim Jones, recommended that it be disbanded. The President's strategy is to build a united, democratic central government in Baghdad that secures the support of all Iraqis. The primary purpose of the President's surge was to buy time for that central government to succeed. But eight months into the surge, there has been no political progress in Baghdad. The sectarian war continues unabated militias still dominate the country and more Iraqis are fleeing their homes for fear of sectarian violence than ever before. Despite these failures, President Bush is about to tell the American people that: He will continue the surge for another six months, putting more American lives and limbs at risk for no strategic gain. When the surge finally ends next year, we will be right back where we started: with 130,000 Americans in Iraq, no lasting change on the ground and no end in sight. That is unconscionable. Pressing ahead with this war, in this way, will not make America safer. The President does not recognize that reality. I do - and I know what we should do about it. We need and I have proposed a comprehensive strategy to end the war in Iraq while protecting our troops and not leaving chaos behind. First, instead of continuing the war with no end in sight, we have to start to bring our troops home now, and withdraw most of them next year. I would limit the mission of those that remain to fighting al Qaeda, training Iraqis and helping them protect their borders. Second, so long as we have any troops left in Iraq, we must treat them with care, not disdain, and give them the best protection this country can provide. If a soldier spends a year in Iraq, he should get at least a year at home before we send him back. And if a soldier spends a single day in Iraq, he should be able to ride in the Mine Resistant vehicles I've been fighting so hard to build -- vehicles that can cut by 70 percent casualties and deaths from roadside bombs. Third, while leaving Iraq is necessary, it is not enough. We need a plan for what we leave behind so that we do not trade a dictator for chaos in Iraq and the region that endangers America's interests for a generation. I have a plan that offers the possibility, not the guarantee, of stability in Iraq as we leave. It's based on the reality that Iraq cannot be governed from the center, as this President believes, because Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds are not ready to entrust their fates to each other. Instead, we have to give Iraq's warring factions breathing room in regions, with local control over the fabric of their daily lives - police, education, jobs, marriage, religion - as Iraq's constitution provides. A limited central government would be in charge of common concerns, including distributing Iraq's oil revenues. A federal, decentralized Iraq is our last, best hope for a stable Iraq. More and more people, inside Iraq and out, are coming to that realization. We should refocus our efforts on making federalism work for all Iraqis. I would initiate a diplomatic surge to do just that, bringing in the U.N., major countries and Iraq's neighbors to help implement and oversee the political settlement I'm proposing. It is time to turn the corner. Stop the surge and start bringing our troops home. End a political strategy that cannot succeed and begin one that can. And always, always protect our troops. This is President Bush's war. But it is America's future. We have to get this right, together.
This past week as the saying goes: "the earth moved under our feet".George Bush made it clear - he will not end the war in Iraq. If there was ever any doubt, now there is none. One of us on this stage will have to stop the war he started. 3,780 dead; 27,848 wounded. This war must end. Four years and $20 billion later, Iraq's army still cannot stand on its own, and its police are totally corrupt and shod be disbanded. Nine months into the surge - and there are still:  1,000 sectarian attacks per week Assassinations of leading figures, including the assassination Thursday of the leading Sunni tribal Sheik who organized the fight against Al Qaeda Iraq in Anbar And Shia militias - uncontrolled - still marauding and murdering Iraqis are still no closer to a political settlement than they were 3 years ago. They continue to murder each other and flee their homes in record numbers. Yet this President had the audacity to look the American people in the eye last Thursday and say:  My strategy is working.  I'm going to continue to risk the lives and limbs of 130,000 of our brave men and women indefinitely.  That is unconscionable. You know - in Iraq - the military refers to those who've been killed in action - as fallen angels. How many more angels must fall - before this war ends? And to add inst to injury when Gen. Petreaus was asked - how continuing the president's policy wod make us safer - he was speechless. The fact is - it makes us more vnerable. But I have a plan that will make us safer:  Start to bring our combat troops home now;  Get them out of the middle of a civil war;  Focus them on securing Iraq's borders and protecting American's in the green ZONE;  Recognize that Iraq is incapable of being governed from the center;  Focus on 3 regions - giving them local control over the fabric of daily lives -police, education, jobs, religion;  And Start a diplomatic surge - get the world's major powers to convene an international conference on Iraq - bring in Iraq's neighbors to focus on a regional settlement. And always, always, protect our troops and care for our veterans. Only when we end this war can we finally turn our attention to the challenges that genuinely threaten our security:  Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan The spread of weapons of mass destruction around the world Confronting Putin's totalitarian instincts Stabilizing the sub-continent of India And Securing our homeland by immediately implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 commission Doing these things - -will not only make us safer - they will allow us to reestablish our credibility in the world. This is President Bush's war. But it is America's future. One of us on this stage is going to have to end this war and secure that future. And what we say and do - the remainder of this campaign - will affect our ability to do that when we are president. Folks - getting this right, is more important than the presidential aspirations of any one of us on this stage. And one more thing, We must recognize - that until we end the divisive politics this war has spawned, We will be unable to build a consensus - here at home - to accomplish the goals we all share:  Universal health care;  Secure retirements;  Access to college;  Strong unions to guarantee a growing middle class;  Energy security - to free us from the iron grip of oil oligarchs ;  And an end to global warming - to literally save humanity.  This is what we stand for as a party. These are America's values. And I will fight - with every fiber in my being - to keep America focused on the values that unite us. The American people are ready. And so am I. For not once in our history have the American people ever let their country down. It has been the historic role of the Democratic Party - from Jefferson to Jackson - Roosevelt to Kennedy to remind Americans of that legacy, to summon us to that moment, to make America, once again, the light of the world. And I pledge to you, as your president that's what I will do. God Bless America. And May God Bless Our Troops.
I've been saying for some time that Pakistan is the most complex country we deal with - and that a crisis was just waiting to happen. On Saturday night, it did. President Musharraf staged a coup against his own government. He suspended the constitution, imposed de-facto martial law, postponed elections indefinitely, and arrested hundreds of lawyers, journalists, and human rights activists. He took these steps the day after Secretary Rice and the commander of all American forces in the region appealed to Musharraf not to take them.America has a huge stake in the outcome of this crisis - and in the path Pakistan follows in the months and years to come. Pakistan has strong democratic traditions and a large, moderate majority. But that moderate majority must have a voice in the system and an outlet with elections. If not, moderates may find that they have no choice but to make common cause with extremists, just as the Shah's opponents did in Iran three decades ago. But unlike Iran, Pakistan already has nuclear weapons. It is hard to imagine a greater nightmare for America than the world's second-largest Muslim nation becoming a failed state in fundamentalist hands, with an arsenal of nuclear weapons and a population larger than those of Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and North Korea combined.To prevent that nightmare from becoming a reality, I believe we need to do three things:First, deal pro-actively with the current crisis.Second, and for the longer term, move from a Musharraf policy to a Pakistan policy that gives the moderate majority a chance to succeed. And third, help create conditions in the region that maximize the chances of success, and minimize the prospects for failure.Resolving the CrisisTo help defuse the current political crisis, we must be far more pro-active, not reactive and make it clear to Pakistan that actions have consequences. President Bush's first reaction was to call on President Musharraf to reverse course. Given the stakes, I thought it was important to actually call him - which is exactly what I did. I also spoke to opposition leader Benazir Bhutto. President Musharraf and I had a very direct and detailed discussion. I told him how critical it is that elections go forward as planned in January, that he follow through on his commitment to take off his uniform, and that he restore the rule of law to Pakistan. It was clear to me that President Musharraf understands the consequences for his country and for relations with the United States if he does not return Pakistan to the path of democracy. Now, President Bush finally got around to calling Musharraf yesterday. As a few of you may know, I'm running for President and I can tell you this: if I'm elected, I won't wait five days to pick up the phone or delegate matters of this magnitude to my secretary of state or to my ambassador. There is too much at stake to leave this kind of conversation to others.If President Musharraf does not restore his nation to the democratic path, U.S. military aid will be in great jeopardy. I would look hard at big-ticket weapons systems intended primarily to maintain the balance of power with India, not to combat the Taliban or Al Qaeda: hardware like F-16 jets and P-3 maritime surveillance aircraft. President Musharraf doesn't want this aid suspension - and neither does the military establishment whose support he needs. Nor can they afford for this crisis to undermine confidence in Pakistan's economy, which has already taken a hard hit. So I believe there is incentive for cooler heads in Pakistan to prevail. But if they don't and if President Bush does not act, Congress almost certainly will. Building a New RelationshipBeyond the current crisis lurks a far deeper problem. The relationship between the U.S. and Pakistan is largely transactional  and this transaction isn't working for either party. From America's perspective, we've spent billions of dollars on a bet that Pakistan's government would take the fight to the Taliban and Al Qaeda while putting the country back on the path to democracy. It has done neither. From Pakistan's perspective, America is an unreliable ally that will abandon Pakistan the moment it's convenient to do so, and whose support has done little more than bolster unrepresentative rulers. It is time for a new approach. We've got to move from a transactional relationship -- the exchange of aid for services -- to the normal, functional relationship we enjoy with all of our other military allies and friendly nations. We've got to move from a policy concentrated on one man - President Musharraf - to a policy centered on an entire people the people of Pakistan. Like any major policy shift, to gain long-term benefits we'll have to shoulder short term costs. But given the stakes, those costs are worth it. Here are the four elements of this new strategy.First, triple non-security aid, to $1.5 billion annually. For at least a decade. This aid would be unconditioned: it's our pledge to the Pakistani people. Instead of funding military hardware, it would build schools, clinics, and roads.Second, condition security aid on performance. We should base our security aid on clear results. We're now spending well over $1 billion annually, and it's not clear we're getting our money's worth. I'd spend more if we get better returnsand less if we don't.Third, help Pakistan enjoy a "democracy dividend." The first year of democratic rule should bring an additional $1 billion -- above the $1.5 billion non-security aid baseline. And I would tie future non-security aid -- again, above the guaranteed baseline -- to Pakistan's progress in developing democratic institutions and meeting good-governance norms. Fourth, engage the Pakistani people, not just their rulers. This will involve everything from improved public diplomacy and educational exchanges to high impact projects that actually change people's lives. This plan would fundamentally and positively shift the dynamic between the U.S. and Pakistan. Here's how:A drastic increase in non-security aid, guaranteed for a long period, would help persuade Pakistan's people that America is an all-weather friend and Pakistan's leaders that America is a reliable ally. Pakistanis suspect our support is purely tactical. They point to the aid cut-off that followed the fall of the Soviet Union to our refusal to deliver or refund purchased jets in the 1990s and to our blossoming relationship with rival India. Many Pakistanis believe that the moment Osama bin Laden is gone, U.S. interest will go with him. When U.S. aid makes a real difference in people's lives, the results are powerful. In October 2005, after a devastating earthquake, American military helicopters delivering relief did far more to improve relations than any amount of arms sales or debt rescheduling. And the Mobile Army Surgery Hospital we left behind is a daily reminder that America cares.To have a real impact on a nation of 165 million, we'll have to raise our spending dramatically. A baseline of $1.5 billion annually, for a decade, is a reasonable place to start. That might sound like a lot - but it's about what we spend every week in Iraq. Conditioning security aid now about three-quarters of our package would help push the Pakistani military to finally crush Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Aid to the Pakistani people should be unconditioned  that is, not subject to the ups and downs of a particular government in Islamabad or Washington. But aid to the Pakistani military and intelligence service should be closely conditioned  that is, carefully calibrated to results. Like it or not, the Pakistani security services will remain vital players - and our best shot at finding Bin Laden and shutting down the Taliban. Their performance has been decidedly mixed: we've caught more terrorists in Pakistan than in any other country but $10 billion later, Pakistan remains the central base of Al Qaeda operations. We must strike a much better bargain.A "democracy dividend" - additional assistance in the first year after democratic rule is restored -- would empower Pakistan's moderate mainstream. The Bush Administration's Musharraf First policy was understandable -- at first. Musharraf had broad support, and in the wake of 9/11 he seemed committed to the fight against Al Qaeda. Six years later, the General is diverting his military, his police, and his intelligence assets from the fight against the terrorists to a crackdown on his political opponents. The Pakistani people have moved on. Hundreds of thousands have taken to the streets to protest Musharraf's unconstitutional rule and hundreds have been killed or gravely injured in the process. The Democracy Dividend would help restore the moral currency this administration has squandered with empty rhetoric about democracy. And it would enable the secular, democratic, civilian political leaders to prove that theymore than the generals or the radical Islamistscan bring real improvement to the lives of their constituents.Last, we've got to engage the Pakistani people directly, and address issues important to them, not just to us. On Afghanistan, Iraq, the Palestinians, Kashmir, Pakistanis want a respectful hearing. We owe them that at least that much.Ask an ordinary Pakistani to list his top concerns about America and you may get answers unrelated to international grand strategy: our visa policy and textile quotas. Or she might raise Abu Ghraib and Gitmo or water-boarding and other forms of torture the Bush Administration still refuses to renounce. Pakistanis don't see these as mere "issues." They see these things as a moral stain on the soul of our nation. In my judgment, so should we.Creating the Conditions for SuccessThis new Pakistan policy cannot succeed in isolation. Conditions in the region and in the broader Muslim world - conditions that the United States can affect - will make a huge difference, for good or for bad. We've got to connect the dots - to be, as I suggested at the outset, smart as well as strong. First, there's what we should do. To increase the prospects that Pakistan will take the lead in the fight against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, we should rededicate ourselves to a forgotten war: Afghanistan. When we shifted resources away from Afghanistan to Iraq, Musharraf concluded the Taliban would rebound, so he cut a deal with them. Redoubling our efforts in Afghanistan - not just with more troops but with the right kind and with a reconstruction effort that matches President Bush's Marshall Plan rhetoric would embolden Pakistan's government to take a harder line on the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Second, there's what we should not do. Consider all this talk of war with Iran. It is totally counter-productive to achieving our ends in Iran but also in Pakistan. In Iran, it allows President Ahmadinejad to distract the Iranian people from the failures of his leadership and adds a huge security premium to the price of oil, with the proceeds going from our consumers to Iran's government. And in Pakistan and also Afghanistan, anything the fuels the sense of an American crusade against Islam puts moderates on the defensive and empowers extremists. It is hard to think of a more self-defeating policy. History's VerdictHistory may describe today's Pakistan as a repeat of 1979 Iran or 2001 Afghanistan. Or history may write a very different story: that of Pakistan as a stable, democratic, secular Muslim state. Which future unfolds will be strongly influencedif not determined by the actions of the United States.I believe that Pakistan can be a bridge between the West and the global Islamic community. Most Pakistanis want a lasting friendship with America. They respect and admire our society. But they are mystified over what they see as our failure to live up to our ideals. The current crisis in Pakistan is also an opportunity to start anew to build a relationship between Pakistan and the United States upon which both our peoples can depend - and be proud.
[Portsmouth, NH (November 29, 2007) - Today in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Sen. Joe Biden discussed the failure of President Bush's surge strategy to produce political reconciliation. Sen. Biden is the only candidate to have offered a political solution for the Iraqi civil war, so that we do not leave chaos behind. He also explained the connection between the Bush administration's rhetoric on Iran and the higher energy prices Americans are paying at the pump. Sen. Biden delivered his remarks at the Pease International Tradeport.] "Security in Iraq is better, though it remains an incredibly dangerous and violent place," said Sen. Biden. "That's great news and it is due in no small measure to the extraordinary skill and bravery of our troops. They will accomplish any mission we give them. Over and over again, they've done their job in Iraq. "The problem is, the President has not done his. "Remember, the stated purpose of the surge was to allow Iraqis to come together politically. There is no evidence - none - that that has happened. And there is no evidence - none - that it will happen so long as the Bush administration and its supporters stick to the failed strategy of trying to build a strong central government in Iraq that wins the trust of its people. "There is only one path to a durable political settlement in Iraq and it's the one I proposed more than a year ago and that 74 other senators recently endorsed: decentralize power give Iraqis local control over the police, jobs, education, services keep a limited central government to distribute oil revenues and bring in the UN to oversee this political settlement." Sen. Biden also discussed how the rising cost of gasoline for America's working families is tied to the mismanagement of our relationship with Iran. "There's another consequence to having 160,000 American soldiers stuck in Iraq: it dramatically undermines our credibility and flexibility to deal with other challenges, starting with a country right next door: Iran," said Sen. Biden. "Right now, you're paying on average $3/gallon for gas. And heating oil costs about $3.23/gallon, a full dollar more than it did this time last year. "What does that have to do with our Iran policy? Everything. Just connect the dots. "The price of every barrel of oil includes what the energy experts call a 'security premium' - an extra cost directly tied to tension and the risk of conflict in the Middle East. The more tensions rise, the higher the security premium goes, because people betting on the long term price of oil anticipate supply disruptions. "Right now, a barrel of oil costs 100 dollars. But a full 30 dollars of that is the security premium. That's right: nearly one-third of the cost of oil pays for that security premium. "So what happens when President Bush or Vice President Cheney start talking about "World War III" with Iran or when Congress votes to designate a large chunk of Iran's military a "terrorist organization?" "First, it plays right into President Ahmadinejad's hands because it allows him to distract the Iranian people from the terrible failures of his leadership. "But second, it ratchets up tension with Iran, which means the security premium goes up and oil prices go through the roof. "That security premium comes right out of your pockets here in New Hampshire. And it goes right into the coffers of the Iranian government, propping up their President and his extreme policies. "It's hard to think of a more self-defeating policy."
The next President will have an awesome responsibility - and a tremendous opportunity - to change this country and shape the world. So much is at stake. Our national security. The physical security of our children. The retirement security of our parents. The economic security of our families. If we don't get the Iraq exit strategy right, our children and grandchildren will be fighting there for a generation to come. If we don't solve the health care crisis now, we may never get it under control. If we don't put an end to George Bush's support for torture and his assault on civil liberties, we will forfeit a piece of our soul. So when people say 'this is the single most important election in my lifetime', they're exactly right. We Democrats have to get it right by nominating the strongest candidate to beat the Republicans and then to help guide this country though the difficult decade ahead. * * * I believe with every fiber in my being that as families as communities as Americans we will meet the challenges we face. We share the conviction that our tomorrows will be better than our yesterdays. The missing ingredient has been leadership. It starts by leveling with the American people. Instead of telling you what you want to hear, we candidates should tell you what you need to hear. Even if it's not popular. There will never be a gap between what I say as a candidate and what I do as President. * * * And I will begin as President by ending this war. This war in Iraq must end. Iraq is the boulder in the middle of the road that's denying us the credibility to lead the world and the flexibility to solve our problems at home. It's not enough to just talk about ending the war. It takes a strategy and real support. That's why I fought so hard to pass the Biden exit strategy to get our troops out of Iraq without leaving chaos behind. Seventy-five senators voted for it, including 26 Republicans. If this President won't enact it I will, on Day One of my presidency. * * * We keep hearing that this election is a choice between "experience" and "change." This election is about more than that. It's about action. Pragmatic solutions to difficult problems. It's about having the confidence the determination and the experience to make change happen. With me, you don't have to hope. You know. While others worried that we couldn't keep conservatives from taking over our courts I stopped Robert Bork from getting on the Court. While others ignored domestic abuse I passed the Violence Against Women Act. While others fretted that we couldn't fight crime without jeopardizing civil liberties I put 100,000 more cops on our streets and got more money for drug prevention and education. While others threw up their hands about the Balkans I led the fight to lift the arms embargo and stop the slaughter. While others talked about building Star Wars I said the day before 9-11 that the next attack on America would come in the belly of an airplane. While others voted to expand Guantanamo I said shut it down. While the President stood silent as General Musharraf declared martial law I got him on the phone and warned him of the consequences. While others talked about change I built bipartisan majorities to make it happen. * * * Folks, I am running for the Democratic nomination for president - as a Democrat. I will not compromise on our values. Republicans let their ideology masquerade as morality. Just where in the Gospel does it say that torture is okay? How moral is it to give an $85 billion tax cut to people making a million dollars a year and then deny health care to children and to tens of millions of Americans; Or to tell 400,000 qualified kids they can't go to college because they can't afford it; How is it moral to go to war unnecessarily, without enough troops without the right equipment for the troops we send or the proper care for those who come home? How is that moral? * * * Before a Democrat can lead, he or she must get elected. We know the Republican playbook. They'll say we're weak. They'll play on people's fears, not their hopes. Ask yourself: who do you want in the ring to take their best shots and then give it back better harder and faster than they gave it? They can't attack me on Iraq. I'm still the only candidate who's proposed a political solution that will make it possible for our troops to come home without trading a dictator for chaos. They can't attack me on supporting the troops. I've led the fight to get them Mine Resistant vehicles, increasing their chances of surviving a roadside bomb by 300 percent. They can't attack me on terror. None of them have worked harder to protect our ports, trains, tunnels, chemical and nuclear plants from attack. I can't wait for that fight. I can't wait to debate Romney or Thompson. I can hardly wait for Rudy. I want it. I relish it. And I will win it. * * * Every night, as I fly across the country, I look down at those pinpoints of light. I wonder what they're talking about at the kitchen table after they put the kids to bed. I believe that, like millions of other Americans they're asking questions as profound as they are ordinary: Should mom move in with us? Is it safe to let our kids use the internet? What about the company cutting health care? Can we afford to fill up the tank? The people who ask these questions used to vote Democratic. Too many of them don't anymore  because we've forgotten how to speak to their hearts as well as their heads. Government isn't just about helping people solve problems. It's about showing people we understand their problems. I understand. Because like so many of you, I've lived these problems. As a child whose father lost his job. As a student whose parents couldn't get a loan to send him to college. As a husband and father who lost his wife and baby daughter. As a single parent commuting home to his boys. As a patient who faced a 30% chance of survival. And as a very human being who has made more than his share of mistakes  but who like so many Americans vowed to get up and move forward. I have not forgotten where I came from. I know where we need to go. With the same passion and commitment to service I felt when I first walked onto the Senate floor 35 years ago .chastened by every mistake more confident from each success I am ready to lead our party and this nation. Together, we will change this country  and shape a better world. God bless you. God bless America. And God Bless our troops.
I want to say I truly regret that words I spoke offended people I admire.I'm humbled that so many of these same people, as well as you in this room, viewed those words through the prism of my history and my heart. For that I'll be forever grateful.This Administration has dug us into a very deep hole:America is more isolated.And Americans are more uncertain about their future than any time in the last half century.The American people are looking for someone to guide us through the difficult decade ahead;Who understands the problems and pressures facing the middle class.They are looking for someone to help restore America's greatness.In Iraq, the President took us to war unnecessarily.Without letting the weapons inspectors finish their work...Without enough troops.Without the right equipment for the troops we sent or care for the veterans who returned...And, most of all, without a plan -- any plan.The price of that failure can be measured in the blood we have shed and the treasure we have lost.3,067 dead.More than 23,000 wounded.And over $350 billion committed to a war with no end in sight.My fellow Democrats, we must end this war.To stop the sectarian cycle of revenge in Iraq, we must first separate the combatants and give them a political way forward.I have a plan to do just that.Give the factions breathing room in their own regions with control over their local police.And over the fabric of their daily lives: education - marriage -- jobs.Give the central government responsibility for borders, currency and the army.Guarantee the Sunnis their fair share of oil revenues.Draw down our troops -- don't escalate -- forcing Iraq's leaders to reach a political settlement.And make Iraq the world's problem by having the U.N. convene a conference of the world's major powers to insist that Iraq's neighbors support that settlement.Mr. President, your surge is not a solution --It is a tragic mistake.And I am doing everything in my power to stop it.Mr.. President, the majority of Americans oppose you on Iraq. We are not emboldening the enemy.That's the one mission you have accomplished.At this moment in our history, Americans need a leader with a breadth and depth of experience in world affairs.This president will leave the next one with no margin for error. The next president will have to end the war in Iraq and immediately turn to other simmering hot spots before they explode.Here at home, it will not be enough for the next president to have the right plans.The American people must believe that our nominee understands what they've been dealing with in their daily lives the last 6 years.They know we need an energy policy to free us from the axis of oil and begin to reverse global warming.But they don't believe that Washington understands just how hard it is to heat their home, or fill up their tank.I understand because I remember. I remember being a kid and answering the door when the bill collector came to shut off the electricity and telling him my mother wasn't home.Americans know we need national health care.But they doubt Washington understands what it feels like to lie in bed, like 47 million Americans without health insurance, looking over at your pregnant wife, and wondering what happens if your baby is premature. Will I lose my home?I understand because I remember being rolled into a operating room 20 years ago, after they told me that my chances weren't good, but thanking God that at least my family wouldn't be left in debt because I had insurance.Americans know that a college degree is a ticket to the middle class.But they wonder whether Washington understands what it feels like for a father or mother to look in the eyes of their child knowing there is no way to pay to help them get there.I understand because I remember. I remember my father's face as he was refused a bank loan to send me to college.I understand, like many of you in this room, these struggles and aspirations of the American people.Because they are ours.They represent our values.America's values.And I will fight with every fiber in my being to keep America focused on the values that unite us, rather than the wedge issues used to divide us.The American people are ready. And so am I.For not once in our history have the American people let their country down.It has been the historic role of the Democratic Party...From Jefferson to Jackson.Roosevelt to Clinton.To remind America of that legacy, to summon us to the moment, to make America, once again, the light of the world.And, I pledge to you, as your President that will be what I do.God Bless America.And, God Bless our troops.
