You know, I wasn't sure that I would ever be able to love a state as much as I love my home state of Arkansas. (LAUGHTER) But tonight, I love Iowa a whole lot. (APPLAUSE) Over the past several months, my family and I have had the marvelous joy and privilege of getting to know many of you. And it's been an incredible honor. I was thinking last night that some of the friendships that we've forged here in the last several months are friendships that will last a lifetime. And we didn't know how this was going to turn out tonight. But I knew one thing: I would be forever grateful to the people that I met, the ones who voted for me, even the ones who didn't, who still treated me with respect and who gave me their attention, who have allowed me to come often, not just into their communities, but into their homes, not once, but time and time again. And a few of them, I even convinced to vote for me tonight and that's really remarkable. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) I want to say how much I appreciate my wife, Janet. (APPLAUSE) She was a wonderful first lady of Arkansas. (APPLAUSE) And I think she'll be a wonderful first lady for the United States of America. (APPLAUSE) We also want to say thanks. Our three children are with us tonight. I would like them to come and just be a part of this tonight. They have all been so much involved. Our oldest son, John Mark, our son, David, his wife, Lauren, our daughter, Sarah, who has literally lived in Iowa for the past two and a half months. And I told her if she stayed much longer, she'll have to get her an Iowa driver's license and probably start paying even more taxes up here. (LAUGHTER) And I say thanks to all of them for joining with us in this effort, because a family goes through it, not just the candidate. But tonight is a celebration for everybody on our team, so many of you who have traveled from all across America to be here. I'm amazed, but I'm encouraged, because tonight what we have seen is a new day in American politics. A new day is needed in American politics, just like a new day is needed in American government. And tonight it starts here in Iowa. But it doesn't end here. It goes all the way through the other states and ends at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue one year from now. (APPLAUSE) I think we've learned three very important things through this victory tonight. The first thing we've learned is that people really are more important than the purse, and what a great lesson for America to learn. Most of the pundits believe that when you're outspent at least 15 to 1, it's simply impossible to overcome that mountain of money and somehow garner the level of support that's necessary to win an election. Well, tonight we proved that American politics still is in the hands of ordinary folks like you and across this country who believe that it wasn't about who raised the most money but who raised the greatest hopes, dreams and aspirations for our children and their future. And tonight I hope we will forever change the way Americans look at their political system and how we elect presidents and elected officials. (APPLAUSE) Tonight, the people of Iowa made a choice, and their choice was clear. Their choice was for a change. AUDIENCE MEMBER: Right! But that choice for a change doesn't end just saying, "Let's change things." Change can be for the better. It could be for the worse. Americans are looking for a change. But what they want is a change that starts with a challenge to those of us who were given this sacred trust of office so that we recognize that what our challenge is to bring this country back together, to make Americans, once again, more proud to be Americans than just to be Democrats or Republicans. (APPLAUSE) To be more concerned about being going up instead of just going to the left or to the right. And while we have deep convictions that we'll stand by and not waiver on, or compromise -- those convictions are what brought us to this room tonight. But we carry those convictions not so that we can somehow push back the others, but so we can bring along the others and bring this country to its greatest days ever. Because I'm still one who believes that the greatest generation doesn't have to be the ones behind us. The greatest generation can be those who have yet to even be born. (APPLAUSE) And that's what we are going to... (APPLAUSE) And, ladies and gentlemen, we've learned something else tonight, and that is that this election is not about me. It's about we. And I don't say that lightly. I'm the person whose name gets on the signs, who occasionally gets the attention in some... (LAUGHTER) ... of the few ads that came out here and there. (LAUGHTER) But the election is not about me. And the country is not just about me. What is happening tonight in Iowa is going to start really a prairie fire of new hope and zeal. And it's already happening across this nation because it is about we; we the people. We saw it tonight. We've seen it in other states. And we're going to continue to see it because this country yearns and is hungry for leadership that recognizes that when one is elected to public office, one is not elected to be a part of the ruling class; he's elected to be a part of the serving class. (APPLAUSE) Because we the people are the ruling class of America. (APPLAUSE) G.K. Chesterton once said that a true soldier fights not because he hates those who are in front of him, but because he loves those who are behind him. Ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that running for office, it's not hating those who are in front of us. It's loving those who are behind us. (APPLAUSE) It's recognizing that behind us are great patriots dating back to the beginning of this wonderful country, when 56 brave men put their signatures on a document that started forth the greatest experiment in government in the history of mankind, and gave birth to the idea that all of us are created equal, and we have been given by our creator inalienable rights: life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And these who signed that document, who gave birth to this dream, were the beginnings of those throughout our history who have continued, with great sacrifice, extraordinary valor, to pass on to us that liberty and the quest for something better than the generation before them had. I stand here tonight the result of parents who made incredible sacrifices as part of a great generation, who went through a Depression and a world war and said our kids won't have to go through these things. And every sacrifice they made were to lift us on their shoulders and give us a better America than they ever could have envisioned. And they were successful in doing that. Now, ladies and gentlemen, for the same reason that our founding fathers and those before us saw what was behind us and gave it their best, I ask you to join me across Iowa and the rest of America to look out there in front of us and not to hate those, but to look behind us and to love them so much that we will do whatever it takes to make America a better country, to give our kids a better future, to give this world a better leader. And we join together tonight for that purpose. God help you and thank you for all you've done. I'm so grateful for the support, the incredible work that you've done. And now we've got a long journey ahead of us. I wish it were all over tonight, and we could just celebrate the whole thing. But unfortunately, if this were a marathon, we've only run half of it. But we've run it well. And now it's on from here to New Hampshire, and then to the rest of the country. But I'll always be wanting to come back to this place and say, wherever it ends -- and we know where that's going to be -- it started here in Iowa. (APPLAUSE) Thank you and God bless you, every one of you. Thank you tonight. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Well, you may like me, but I want to tell you something: I love you guys. Thank you very much. (APPLAUSE) I have a great, great friend, who is a highly decorated Marine from Vietnam, and he made a statement once. He said, I've never lost at anything I've done. Sometimes the game ended before I got finished playing. Tonight, I was able to call Governor Romney, Senator McCain, and congratulate them on finishing ahead of us, but, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, we were way back in not-so-even sixth place, and nobody thought that we would even be one of the contenders in New Hampshire. (APPLAUSE) But because so many people in this state just worked their hearts out -- and it wasn't like we had a whole lot of money to help you with, so you made up for it with hard work, phone calls, e-mails. Frankly, I'm not sure what all some of you did. I don't even want to know. But thank you for getting it done, because tonight we're going to come out here with the continued momentum, and I want to just tell you from the depths of my heart that we thought that if we could finish in the top -- we kept saying four or five, we'd feel pretty good about that, knowing just how tough it's been to try to break through. But, tonight, you've given us so much more than we could have imagined just a few days or weeks ago, and over the last few days, we've seen that momentum build and the excitement at our rallies and the enthusiasm of our people and the size of the crowds. And we just sensed that we were going to do better than a lot of people thought that this old unknown Southern boy could possibly do up here in New England. (APPLAUSE) Janet and I want to just pay special tribute to our leaders here. Fred Bramante and Cliff Hurst, our co-chairmen here, have been magnificent, and from the very first day they signed on. My heartfelt thanks to them for a great job of leading our campaign here. Thank you, guys. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) And Fred does want me to remind everybody that today is Elvis's birthday, so I just wanted to throw that in. (APPLAUSE) To all these wonderful people on the stage with me from New Hampshire, who have given not just their time, but really they put their reputations on the line for us. And when they came onboard, you have to understand, people were saying, "You're going to endorse who?" And I want to say how much I appreciate the people in New Hampshire for standing with us. And it wasn't because that they could see a few weeks ago some obvious victory. It was because they saw in this country the opportunity to really bring the kind of leadership you and I all know we really need to take America up and not down, and that's what we're going to continue to do. (APPLAUSE) So many others. Senator Bob Clegg has headed up our legislative effort, and I hope Bob is up on this stage. Thank you, Bob, for a great job. Where were... (APPLAUSE) But all over this state, people like you and others who couldn't even be here with us in Manchester tonight certainly recognize the incredible hard work that's been put forth. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had the time of our lives. If there's any sadness tonight, it's not where we finished, because, frankly, we're pretty happy about that. (APPLAUSE) But there is some sadness, and let me share with you what it is. Over the past year or so, I've had the incredible joy of making regular visits in and out of New Hampshire, and it got to be where I just knew I was going to be up here two or three times a month and I'd get to see what has become really not just some casual acquaintances and some friends, but people how have grown as close as family. And I'm going to tell you something, I always had thought that Southern hospitality was extraordinary and special, and I thought that it was unique to those of us who lived in the deep South. You guys have proven to me that love, friendship, kindness, hospitality and family is not geographical. And tonight I want to express to you, from the depths of my heart, the appreciation that Janet and I feel for all that you have done to make us feel like we're part of you and you're part of us. And we're going to miss coming back over and over every month. (APPLAUSE) But let me tell you something. We're going to be back in New Hampshire, because after we secure the nomination, we've got to come up here and make sure we carry New Hampshire. (CROSSTALK) HUCKABEE: And I promise, we keep coming, I'll even learn how to say "chowder." One final word. Deb Vanderbeek has been our campaign manager here in New Hampshire and has been more than magnificent. She put together a great staff and they did more work with fewer people than anybody's campaign could ever have imagined and hoped for. I told her tonight before we came out, I said, "Deb, if I had it all to do over, I'd want you to make sure you know that I wouldn't ask anybody to manage this campaign in this state, other than you." And I thank you so much, Deb, for a great job. (APPLAUSE) We may even get a halfway-decent night's sleep tonight. We sure are feeling better about you guys. And then from here, we're going to head to South Carolina. We'll be down there at Greenville, a big rally to kick off. In Michigan and South Carolina and Florida in the next three days, what you helped us continue will be carried right on through, and it won't be long, we're going to be able to secure this nomination and on to the White House and on to leading America. Thank you, folks. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thanks so very much. You guys have been waiting -- I hear we have between 800 and 1,000 people packed in this place. Please don't call the fire marshal. (LAUGHTER) First of all, I want to say a special word of thanks to the people in Michigan. They've been wonderful to us over the past few days. You know, we were outspent 50:1, and for us to be able to do as well as we did is a remarkable testament to some incredible volunteers up there. I congratulate Mitt Romney. He won a great race. He worked hard. He, of course, has a great base there, but our hats are off to him for his victory there tonight. So it looks like that I won Iowa; John McCain won New Hampshire; Mitt Romney won Michigan. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to win South Carolina! (APPLAUSE) We put a flag in the ground here Saturday. We're going to make it real clear, that the first-in-the-South primary is going to give their support to the first-in-the-South candidate who understands that this nation needs leadership, and leadership that comes right from the earth and right from the heart of the people. Months ago, when none of the other Republicans were talking about the economy, when they all said it was doing great, I said you better keep your eye on it, because if you just not spend your time talking to people, but if you spend some time listening to people, you're going to find out that there's a world of hurt out there in America. Now, all of them are realizing that what I said months ago is true. And we need the kind of leadership that not only sees it first, but does something about it first, and that's what I pledge to the people of America. (APPLAUSE) Give me a chance to lead, and we will lead this country. And we'll change the tax system. And we'll also make it so that your government doesn't work against you in your job, but helps work for you, because good government ought to facilitate the free enterprise system; it ought not to complicate the free enterprise system. That's why we need lower, not higher taxes. It's why we need a government that understands that mothers and fathers raise better kids than governments do. Get the government off mom and dad's back and let them raise their families. It's why it's also true that over the past few months, people who said, who is this Huckabee guy? Where is he coming from? I'll tell you where I'm coming from. I'm coming from you, and a lot of people around this country are realizing that it's time that the presidency and that the government is not headquartered so much in Washington, D.C., as is headquartered in the small towns across this country, where people do the work and put food on the table for their families and get their kids to school. And they basically just want a government that is as small as it can be, but what government there has to be does two things -- one, protects our borders, protects out security and makes it so we're safe in this nation; and the second thing, leaves us alone so that we can live our lives and live in this free enterprise system and give small business a chance to survive and even thrive. That's what America's really looking for. (APPLAUSE) And that's what they're going to get when we get elected. (APPLAUSE) I'm deeply grateful for the kind of support we're getting in South Carolina. And today, when we were here in rallies in Sumter and in Rock Hill, huge crowds, enthusiastic crowds. And we told folks, look, between now and Saturday, we don't want you to just go and say, "oh, I'll vote for you." We want you to go and say, "I'll vote for you and I'll get folks out there to go with me to vote." And I've said, if you're going to vote for me, don't let anything keep you from it. If you're not going to vote for me, don't even show up. (LAUGHTER) If you know somebody that's not going to vote for me, let the air out of their tires Saturday. (LAUGHTER) You know, a lot of these politicians will say, now, it doesn't matter who you vote for, as long as you vote. You'll never hear me say that, because it matters who you vote for! (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) And I want to tell you something. For the past several months, it's been our desire, our commitment, and now it is our determination that we're not just going to do well in South Carolina. You know, the Campbell (ph) family -- and I'm so grateful for Mike Campbell and his family -- they're kind of the gold standard of South Carolina politics. And every year since 1980, when they picked Ronald Reagan when he was in fourth place and he was the Republican candidate that the establishment didn't like and didn't want, back even then, the Campbell family said, "this is who we're going to support." And they picked a winner. And every presidential election since that time, the Campbell family has batted 1000. They haven't been wrong yet. And I want to make something absolutely, perfectly clear. We aren't about to let the Campbell family down in 2008. (APPLAUSE) They're going to still be picking a winner this week. (APPLAUSE) David Beasley's been here with me. He and I have been governors together, close friends. Our wives are close friends. And I can tell you that there's nobody more fired up for us in all of South Carolina than David Beasley. And folks, over the next few days, I'm sure you're going to hear some things, well, here's all the stuff about Mike Huckabee. That's fine. Just remember, you know, as my pastor used to tell me as a little kid, when you're getting kicked in the behind, it proves you're still out front. So we'll probably take a little kicking out here. (APPLAUSE) All that does is prove we're still out front. And I want you to help us this week. Let me tell you why it's so important. Because we need to prove that electing a president is not just about how much money a candidate has. It's about whether he can lead this country and reflect the views and the values of the people that really are the heart and the soul of America.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. God bless you and thank you. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. AUDIENCE: Huckabee! Huckabee! Huckabee! Huckabee! Huckabee! Huckabee! HUCKABEE: Thank you. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Huckabee! Huckabee! HUCKABEE: Thank you. Well, just a few moments ago, I made a phone call to Senator McCain and I offered him my congratulations. I told him that I would much rather prefer that he had called me tonight, but he was very gracious, as we knew he would be, and I was certainly willing to compliment him. I want to thank him for running a civil and a good and a decent campaign to elevate politics. And he is to be congratulated. (APPLAUSE) One of the things I'm proud of, those of us, the two of us who finished at the top, ran a campaign with a level of civility, without attacking each other, and even though I would like for the outcome to be just a little different on the top than in the second place, I had rather be where I am and have done it with honor than to have won with the dishonor of getting there by attacking somebody else. And I'm grateful. (APPLAUSE) I am grateful for the campaign that you have been willing to run with me and grateful for the campaign that he has run as well. Well, obviously tonight we wanted to come here and to declare a South Carolina victory. We got awful close. Unfortunately, in politics, close doesn't count for the first slot, but it does count. And the reason that I want to encourage you tonight is to remind you that politics, and particularly this year more than perhaps any other, this is not an event, it is a process. And the process is far, far from over. (APPLAUSE) Obviously, I'm deeply grateful to our South Carolina team working their hearts out. To Mike Campbell, our state chairman, his wonderful mother, Iris Campbell, I thank you so very much. God bless you. (APPLAUSE) To my friend, former governor David Beasley and his wife Mary Wood, once again stuck his neck out and just was able to campaign with me all over this country, and here in South Carolina, and I just want to thank him also for jumping in. And we'll look forward to having him on the trail in other places as well. (APPLAUSE) For Lieutenant Andre Bauer, and for his willingness to endorse us this week. And in many ways, I believe that we will leave South Carolina not only with incredible numbers of friends, but I believe with a renewed unity in the Republican Party of South Carolina, bringing these two men, Mike Campbell and Andre Bauer, to the same stage. And both of them have an incredibly great future, as does South Carolina, a most wonderful state. And I'm grateful for all you have done. (APPLAUSE) I cannot begin to say thanks enough for our staff. These are the people that, honestly, I don't know how many weeks a person can go without sleep, but they are going to test the absolute outer limits of it before this campaign is over. Most campaigns have three people to one that we have on our staff. And they have just worked not with complaint, but with a commitment that I have never seen ever. And then the volunteers. Many of you have come here from all over America at your own expense. It's incredible. And we've had people that literally have made phone calls for us, some of whom are in Europe, and they've used their free cell phone weekend minutes to make calls back to South Carolina and encourage people to come vote. It's been unbelievable. (APPLAUSE) Let me just say that tonight is not a time to start asking, what if? It's a time to start talking about, what now? And we're not going to sit around and second guess, well, what if we had done -- what if -- no. You know what? I feel like that our effort here, we gave everything we had. We left it all on the field. I don't want anyone who worked in this campaign, from our volunteers to our staff, to feel anything other than an extraordinary sense of pride, and also a sense of just sheer joy that we got as far as we did when nobody thought it was even possible for us to be in contention. (APPLAUSE) Let me tell you and remind you how we got here. It wasn't because we had the most money, the most consultants, the most staff, the most resources, the most polls, the most focus groups. Here is what we had. What we had was we had a message that has connected and continues to connect with people all over this country who have feared that they have been forgotten and have become invisible to many political people. And they fear that maybe they matter just as much, because what they really want is they want a government that will take the heavy burden of taxation off their backs. They want a government that will start thinking about how much money it's spending and stop it. And finally start acting with some level of sanity when it comes to spending the very dollars they have taken from us. People want a government that recognizes that mothers and fathers really do raise better children than governments do. And they want a government that leaves them alone so they can raise their children as they see fit, not with the government telling them how. (APPLAUSE) They want a government who will finally build a fence, secure our borders, and confront the issue not just of illegal immigration, but confront the greater issue that is plaguing so many people in South Carolina and the rest of America, and that is the fear that tomorrow they will lose their jobs and not be able to put food on their table and clothes on their kids' backs. And for every person out there who is serving the food and driving the trucks and who's sitting in the front of the cabs and not the back seat, for the ones who are on the lines of the factories and climbing up and down the ladders, carrying paint buckets in their hands and hammers, we want to be a campaign that says there is room in the Republican Party for you. And, in fact, the Republican Party is all about making sure that everybody in this country has the best kind of future. And that message and that mission is far from over tonight. And that's why I don't want us to leave here saying, well, the game has ended. No, we have just finished one of the quarters of play. My dear friend Clebe McClary, who I love to quote on occasions like this, who is a South Carolinian, I love what he says. He says I have never lost at anything I have ever done. Sometimes the game ends before I get finished playing, but I have never lost at anything I have done. (APPLAUSE) And ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know we don't lose tonight. The game ended a little early for us. But I also want you to know this -- the path to the White House is not ending here tonight. We are resetting the clock. We are resetting all of the gauges. (APPLAUSE) We have learned. And tomorrow, after a little bit of sleep, we wake up to fight the battle yet again and yet again. And I still believe a year from now all of you that have helped us get there will be in Washington for the inauguration of the 44th president of the United States. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) Let me say a final word of thanks to my wife Janet and my children. It's tough to run for office. The only thing more difficult than running for office is to be married to the guy who does. And she has been willing and ready and has given her all, and has never flinched in her undying support for what we're about. And I want to say to every one of you how much we love you, how much we thank you. The people of South Carolina have been magnificent to us. Your hospitality, your warmth, your support, your encouragement, the enthusiasm, and everything you have done for us, I just cannot begin to tell you what a deep and wonderful impression you have left with us. Even if we didn't come in first in the results tonight, you have come in first in our hearts by giving us the kind of wonderful experience that everybody in life ought to just once be able to have. I'm even wearing this South Carolina tie tonight. And... (APPLAUSE) And wearing it with an extraordinary sense of gratitude and pride as a symbol and a reminder of how grateful we are to your wonderful, gifts to us, and your love and your support. It's on from here. And tomorrow in Texas. Monday in Georgia and Florida. And then on in Florida again. We have got a lot of miles ahead of us. It's a long process and a long path. But I want to make sure that you know that after you get just a little bit of sleep, we need you back ready, able and willing to take it to the White House. (APPLAUSE) Thank you. God bless you. Thank you, every one of you. Thank you.
Well, folks, I wanted to tell you what we're doing. We are rehearsing for the victory speech we'll be able to give about Missouri next week. (APPLAUSE) I was kind of hoping for a warm welcome in Missouri and there's about 50-mile-an-hour winds and snow out here. I wish that I had brought the Florida weather with me today. I think we would have all enjoyed that very much. Well, I think we're all aware that the situation in Florida is that we're going to be in a position looking at either third or fourth. Now, for those of you that think I should be discouraged, let me just remind you that going into tonight, we were second in delegate count and, more importantly, we're playing all nine innings of this ballgame. (APPLAUSE) Even the Cardinals occasionally have a rough inning, but they know how to win championships. What I want to express to you is next week, when we are going to be in Missouri and Oklahoma and Arkansas and Tennessee and Alabama and Georgia and all of these states where we're leading in the polls, and we're still going to be leading next week, we're going to have a great opportunity to start taking it all the way home to the nomination and to the White House, and it's going to happen a lot because of Missouri next week. (APPLAUSE) And we appreciate the great support we're getting. I want to say thanks to the people of Florida. There's going to be probably, before it's over, maybe up to 300,000 people down there who worked their hearts out for us and those people, I can't tell you how proud I am of them, because they had no resources. Others have spent millions and millions of dollars. We knew that we wouldn't have those kind of resources to play there. So we went out there and just worked with people who would come out, put their own signs out, buy their own t-shirts and hats. A lady in Pensacola, she and her daughter put out 700 signs, just the two of them, in one day. Unbelievable. And that's the kind of thing that's happening across this country with our campaign that a lot of people still haven't figured out. And when you look at what we have done with what we have, it's a remarkable story that is not even close to being over. In fact, we like to believe we're just really getting started. (APPLAUSE) There are some great folks down there. Our chairman, Senator Daniel Webster, and our co-chairman, House Speaker Marco Rubio, and a host of great Floridians who have been extremely dedicated to our task. I don't want them to feel discouraged. I want them instead to feel very proud of their effort and be as half as proud of their effort as I am of them and the wonderful work that they've done for us. I know it's a little tight in this room. We really anticipated that we might have 100 people. We thought that about half of this would be enough, and we did not expect the weather to be this bad. And I don't know if you're coming here because you're escaping then cold and the heat is out in your house, but because of the weather, we've got to get to California tonight. So our exit will be a little quicker than we had wanted it to be, and I apologize in advance for that, but I'm sure you understand that we've got to be at the Reagan Library tomorrow night. So we're flying out as soon as we leave here, headed to California, because I'm going to be on that stage tomorrow night. I'm not sure everybody's going to be there, but I will be. (APPLAUSE) And I need you here in Missouri to join with us in being a part of a wonderful volunteer army across this country who believes that it would be a better America if we did not have the IRS making it... (APPLAUSE) ... and that believe that it would be a better America if we did stand up for human life and traditional marriage. (APPLAUSE) And that it would be a better America if we actually sealed our borders and became energy independent within 10 years. (APPLAUSE) And that it would be a better America if we had a country that once again believed in its future and believed that it's not so much just about Democrats versus Republicans and the left versus the right and liberals versus conservatives, it's about Americans building a better future for their kids and their grandkids and taking this country up and not down. And that's why people are with us and across this country, we're finding homemakers and truck drivers and people who wait tables, as well as folks who work in the lines at the factories, and people who run their own business, and I want to be the president who reminds America that that small business owner out there, every day, working hard and taking a risk is the person that ought to believe that his government is going to be out there to under-gird him, not undermine his every move, and we're going to make sure that happens in this country. (APPLAUSE) And you're going to help be a part of that. I wish we had cooked food for all of you. I bet right now you're wishing it, too. AUDIENCE MEMBER: Fried chicken. HUCKABEE: Fried chicken. I gave it up a few years ago. But I do know how to eat it if I ever get it, that's right. I want to, again, express my thanks to Ray Wagner (ph) and all of the folks here in Missouri who have been working with us, Jeff Rowe (ph) and so many others who have just helped us have great confidence that between now and seven days from now, there's going to be something that we'll all be shouting about. And it won't just be a Missouri victory, but also, that same night, there'll be one in Georgia and Alabama and Tennessee, and there'll be one in Arkansas and Oklahoma, and maybe a few other places that people aren't even expecting it to happen. Thank you folks for being here. God bless every one of you. Pray hard, work hard, get the votes out. Remember this -- if they're going to vote for me, make sure they come. If they're not, don't let them out of their driveway. Thank you, folks. God bless you. Thank you.
Well, thank you. You know, over the past few days a lot of people have been trying to say that this is a two-man race. Well, you know what? It is. And we're in it! (APPLAUSE) Tonight, we are making sure America understands that sometimes one small smooth stone is even more effective than a whole lot of armor. (APPLAUSE) And we've also seen that "The Widow's Might" has more effectiveness than all the gold in the world. (APPLAUSE) Janet and I and our family and team want to begin by saying thanks, first of all, to the wonderful of people of Arkansas, where it all started and where tonight we have a wonderful, wonderful victory here at home. (APPLAUSE) We love this state, always have and always will. And tonight we're reminded again why -- because of the incredible people who believed in us early and stayed with us through all of the times when so many people said you can't get there. And tonight we're proving that we're still on our feet, and much to the amazement of many, we're getting there, folks. We're getting there. (APPLAUSE) We have been standing for small business owners who know that government has for way too long had its foot on their neck, with taxes that were too high, regulations that were too onerous. The threat of litigation made it impossible for many small business owners to survive. And our party once stood to make sure that we helped clear the way so that the free market system really worked. And we're going do it again because one of these days when I get to be president -- and it won't be very long, about a year from now... (APPLAUSE) ... I really do look forward to nailing the "going out of business" sign on the front door of the IRS. (APPLAUSE) And when we have the fair tax, a lot of small business owners and individuals will finally have a fair shot of getting a part of the American dream. (APPLAUSE) We're here tonight and winning states across the South because we've stood for the idea that mothers and fathers raise better kids than governments do. And government ought to undergird a family, not undermine a basic family's rights to raise their own kids. And that's one of the reasons we're here tonight. We're here tonight because people want to know that the president is going to secure our borders and make it so it's not more difficult to get on an airplane in your hometown than it is to cross the international border, and that we're going to fix an issue that the federal government has allowed to go unchallenged for a long, long time. We're here tonight because a lot of people in the South and across America know that the Second Amendment is to be respected as much as the First Amendment. And they know that there's only one candidate who has a consistent record of making sure we do that. (APPLAUSE) And one of the reasons that we're here tonight is because there's no candidate who has been more consistent and clear about the fact that we should honor the words of our forefathers who said all of us are created equal. And that means that every single person has intrinsic worth and value. And we should uphold the sanctity of human life because it is a cornerstone of our culture of life. And Ladies and Gentlemen, tonight I believe that one of the things you're saying across the nation is that people are saying the conservatives do have a choice because the conservatives have a voice. And tonight, they're getting a chance to express that. And from here, they'll get to continue expressing that choice and that voice. (APPLAUSE) Now, it's tough for this old razorback to say things like roll, tide roll, but I'm doing it tonight. (APPLAUSE) And it's tough for this old razorback to look over there to the state just to the east of us and anticipate being able to say that we're two (ph) volunteers. I think before the night is over, I'll even be singing "Rocky Top." (APPLAUSE) This old razorback may even catch some bulldog fever before the night is over. And we're going to forget all about the Cotton Bowl and even be grateful for our friends to the north before tonight night is over, I'm fully believing. But tonight is far more important than contests between the rivalry of some of our states in athletics, starting today with the wonderful people of West Virginia who gave us a surprising, stunning, and wonderful victory. (APPLAUSE) Today has been a day when the people have spoken. And today people across this country are saying that, yes, we heard what the pundits said. But this is our vote, not theirs. This is our election, not theirs. This is our presidency, not theirs. (APPLAUSE) And for all those people who have made sacrifices to help us be here, I want to say thank you. And I also want you to know that as long as there's still votes and delegates to be won until that magic number of 1,191, there's going be one guy answering the bell every time there's a new round. (APPLAUSE) Sometimes -- sometimes elections have a way of tearing us apart even within our own party. But the ultimate purpose, that we're all in this, is not to see our party divided, and it most certainly is not to see our country divided. We got in this because we wanted to see our party pull together again, but even more than our party, as important as this is, it's far more important that we bring this nation back together where we once again... (APPLAUSE) ... where we realize that our greatest strength is not in the government we elect, but it's in the ordinary people who do the choosing. It still is a land of the people. And we're going to continue to prove that, even with limited resources but lots of heart, the presidency can belong to the people of this country. When I started out as a little kid, believe me, I never thought I'd even see a president within eyesight of me physically. And I've often told the story, I'm 8 year's old, and my dad said, "Son, I'm going to take you down to hear a speech by the governor. He's coming down to our part of the state. And governors didn't get here very often." And boy they didn't. And he's said, "I want you to go down and hear the speech because he's dedicating a lake. And you needed to hear that because, son, you may live your whole life and you may never actually get to see a governor in person." Little did he know that that boy would become the 44th governor of the state of Arkansas and serve this wonderful state for 10 and a half years. (APPLAUSE) And I'm pretty sure that he could have never ever even dreamed that one day I'd be standing here tonight and I'd be saying, folks, in a few more months, you'll help me become the 44th president of the United States of America. (APPLAUSE) Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) Thank you. Thank you. AUDIENCE: We love Mike! We love Mike! We love Mike! We love Mike! MR. HUCKABEE: And we love you guys. I want -- I want to say a word of thanks to my family, but especially all these folks who are with us tonight, joining our family to say thanks. But there's nobody who has had to put up with more, no one who has paid a higher price to go through all of this for the past 13 months than my partner of almost 34 years, my wife, my friend, your next first lady of America. And I want her to join me in saying thank you. Janet Huckabee. (APPLAUSE)
Thank you, first of all, Star Parker, my dear friend and true supporter. And thank all of you for being this alive and this energetic on a Saturday morning, early.It is sometimes asked of me, why is it that I'm a conservative? After all, I come from a state that doesn't have a whole lot of history of conservatism, and certainly not Republicanism.Well, a lot of it is that, as you know, I get asked all these "God" questions in the debates. And I guess, in a way, it's appropriate, because my conservatism is rooted in my understanding of the Scriptures. [cheers and applause] And here's why. Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse two, says that "A wise man's heart directs him toward the right, but a foolish man's heart directs him toward the left." There you have it. [cheers and applause]Let me explain some things about the way I grew up in south Arkansas, where there were no Republicans native to Hempstead County. I came from the little town of Hope. I know you've heard of it before. And, yes, there was another obscure, unknown governor who couldn't win the presidency who came from Hope, Arkansas too. But as I've often said, give us one more chance, folks. [applause]I was in an airplane and a guy sitting next to me several months ago was, I think, just trying to throw up some conversation. So he turned to me and he said, "Hey, mister, I've got a joke I want to tell you. It's about this politician from Hope, Arkansas." I said, "Excuse me, sir. I need to let you know something before you embarrass yourself. I am a politician from Hope, Arkansas." He looked over at me and he said, "Oh, that's all right, son. I'll tell it real slow." (Laughter.)When I grew up, I came from a family where there were three basic heroes in our household: Jesus, Elvis and FDR. Like so many kids of the South, it was sort of just inbred in us that we were all Democrats. Now, it wasn't because folks there were so much liberal, but there was just this sort of gravitation toward it. In fact, there were only seven Republicans that I knew of in my entire home county. Every one of them had moved in from either Kentucky, Indiana or Illinois. None of them were native to Hempstead County. There used to be a saying that "There are no Republicans here except the ones that either moved in or had been messed with."Well, I was one of those guys that at some point got messed with, and here's what happened. As a teenager, I went to work for a gentleman by the name of Haskell Jones. He was the manager of the local radio station, and he gave me a job. I look back and I think what an incredible thing. Here's a guy that looked at a 14-year-old kid and saw something in him and said, "I want you to work for me." And he was one of those seven Republicans who had moved in from somewhere.He loved this country. He was a great patriot. He understood the blessings of America. And even though I had not grown up in a Republican household, I understood something about the blessings of America. I was raised to love this country. I was not allowed to be unkind toward it.My parents, though, they were not well-educated; just hard- working, blue-collar types that barely could make the rent payments on the little rent house we lived in on 2nd Street in Hope, Arkansas; a father that worked two jobs, one as a fireman, the other as a mechanic, the kind of dad who got grit and grime under his fingernails every single day because he did the work of heavy lifting and hard labor; the kind of household where the only soap we had in our house was Lava soap. That means I was in college before I found out it's not supposed to hurt when you take a shower. (Laughter, applause.)My father never graduated high school. In fact, no male upstream from me in my entire family lineage had ever graduated high school. I would be the first, and the first to ever go into college. [applause]My mother was the oldest of seven children and grew up in a household where her early childhood was spent with dirt floors, no electricity, outdoor toilets. I'm a generation away from the abject poverty that plagued so many people of the Deep South who went through the Great Depression and world war, but a part of what we often call the greatest generation, because they did not live for their own comforts. They lived so their children would have a better life than them. And that's why many of us live better today than we ever could have dreamed. [applause]Because of what they and others like them in their generation instilled in me, I grew up believing that no matter where you started in this country, it wasn't where you had to stop. And that was the greatness of America is that we had individual freedom, that our freedom was not tied to the group to which we were automatically or arbitrarily connected. Our freedom was tied to our own individual souls. It was a gift from God, not our government. And therefore, no one could take it from us because no one gave it to us. [applause]It was instilled in me that because freedom is individual, personal responsibility is also individual and was upon me and that I could not expect somebody or the government to do for me what I was supposed to do for myself. [cheers and applause]When I went to work for Haskell Jones, this great patriot and Republican, he began to help me crystallize what I understood was part of a greater movement. This was in the 1960s, in 1968 and 1969, and this country was literally burning with riots and dissent. And we remember the Democratic National Convention, when the whole world was watching, and they were.And there was a real definite choice that year, a choice. Would we be a country of law and order or law of mayhem? And that further helped crystallize my view that I believed in law and order, not mayhem. I believed that some things were right and some things were wrong, and when we went with the right, we had strength. And when we saw that there was no moral center and there was nothing that really ever could be defined a moral absolute, then we were lost and confused.I also was handed a book by Haskell Jones when I was a teenager. It was a book that was called "It's a Choice, not an Echo," written by Phyllis Schlafly. [applause] And that book had a tremendous impact on me as a teenager. Quite frankly, that book reminded me that in all of our lives, we should not simply be echoing the sentiments of others, but making deep personal choices about what we believe and, most importantly, why we believe it.I realize that it is not politically correct to say what I'm about to say, but I've believed it since I was a teenager, and I will not recant it now. The reason that America is a great nation is because America is a special nation. And the reason America is a special nation is because it was founded by people who were first on their knees before they were on their feet. We are a nation rooted in our faith. [cheers and applause]I've had the incredible privilege and joy to have visited almost 40 countries across the world. I've seen some magnificent things, experienced some dramatic and exotic cultures, tasted some delicious foods, experienced the hospitality and the warmth of many peoples, of many nations. I've sat and visited with heads of state, with heads of companies, and with ordinary people in virtually every part of this world, whether Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Lebanon, Turkey, Egypt, nine times to Israel, to Russia, to all parts of Asia, Europe, Central America.But in all of my travels and all of the ways in which I've touched other parts of the world, I've yet to find any country, as enchanted as I was with it, for which I would even consider for a moment giving up my citizenship in the United States of America to trade it for residence anywhere else on earth. [applause]We are a special nation. [applause] And we are a special nation because, throughout our history, we have been people who have made choices rather than simply echo the voices of others. I know that there was some speculation that I might come here today to announce that I would be getting out of the race. But I want to make sure you understand. Am I quitting? Well, let's get that settled right now. No, I'm not. [cheers and applause]And the reason is simple — because I go back to that which helped crystallize in me a conservative viewpoint as a teenager when it wasn't easy or popular to be a Republican or a conservative in my hometown, because I do believe that America is about making choices, not simply echoing that of others. Let others join the "Me, too" crowd.But I didn't get where I am today and I didn't fight the battles in a state that, when I became its governor, was 90 percent Democrat, by simply echoing the voices of others. I did it by staking out a choice, stating that choice, making that choice and fighting for that choice, to believe that some things were right, some things were wrong, and it's better to be right and even to not win than it is to be wrong and to be a part of the crowd. [cheers and applause]When I was a teenager, there was a phrase that came late in the '60s and early '70s that sort of was a mantra for many of us as conservatives. And quite frankly, I remember it on bumper strips. It said, "My Country, Right or Wrong." And I guess many of us subscribe to that view that it is my country, right or wrong.But the real history of that statement goes back to the 1800s, when a senator from Missouri named Carl Schurz, who served from 1869 to 1875, a German immigrant who came to this country, later elected to the U.S. Senate, once served in a president's Cabinet after that, died in the early 1900s.But the point of context of the statement is this. He said, "My country, right or wrong. When it's right, we will keep it right. And when it's wrong, we will make it right." (Cheers.) And ladies and gentlemen, that ought to be the heart cry of every conservative. [applause] When it is right, we will keep it right. But when it is wrong, we will make it right.I want to say again that freedom does not exist in a vacuum. It has to have moral clarity. We have to believe that murder, lying, stealing are wrong or freedom doesn't work. Freedom has to always operate in the context in which responsibility is the other wing of the airplane on our individual freedom and choice.If we, as a nation, ever fail to understand that, then we will disintegrate and become like many of the cultures that we today have to confront and, in fact, fight, who do not believe that it is wrong to murder, even to murder one's own child for the sake of the political cause of Islamo-fascism.What separates us from that very culture out to destroy us is that it never would be conceivable to us that we would strap a bomb to the belly of our own children and march our own child into a room full of innocent people to detonate the bomb in order to make a political point, because we believe some things are right and some things are wrong. And we would believe it wrong to kill our own children for a purpose beneath that. [cheers and applause]But we also believe that there are some things that are right. For example, as conservatives, we believe that it is right to protect the sovereignty of the United States and to make sure that we never, ever, for any circumstance, under any purpose, ever yield one ounce of our sovereignty over to some international tribunal. [cheers and applause]That's why we have to fight — (continued applause) — that's why we need to fight against the Law of the Sea Treaty and make sure that it gets a good burial at sea. That's why we should say no to Kyoto, because it's not giving over — (applause) — our sovereignty. And it's why any time some United States judge who has taken an oath to the Constitution of the United States should invoke some international law as a basis upon which to make a decision, he should be summarily impeached for having done so. [cheers and applause]It is right to have a strong military. In fact, one of the mistakes that we have made is we have allowed ourselves to believe that the peace dividend of the Clinton administration is something that is anything less than has become now the war deficit, because we have failed to keep our military spending up to the level at which we can have the troop strength that we desperately need.That's why, in the next election cycle, and hopefully in the next administration, we will return to the kind of at least GDP spending that we had during the Reagan years, because, quite frankly, the quickest path and the surest path to peace is to make sure that we have the kind of military that no one on earth wants to engage in a battle, knowing full well they don't stand a chance. [cheers and applause]It is right for us to be on the offense against Islamo-fascism and not wait until they attack us. And on this, we need to salute the president for the fact that he has not been willing to wait until they attack us again on our soil. [cheers and applause]Unlike any war we have ever fought in this nation, this is not a war for soil. This is a war for our soul. We will either win it or we will lose it. And this nation must rally to the point where we recognize there is no compromise. There is no alternative. We must win. They must lose. Islamo-fascism must disappear from the face of the earth or we will. [cheers and applause]It is right for us to believe in a government that gives to us lower taxes and less government and controls spending. And I know that you believe that that is the what. But let me share with you the why — because I think sometimes in the political debates of today we miss the point. This goes not to the heart just of a political argument but to a moral one.When government takes more from us and confiscates more of our earnings than it has a right to confiscate for the basic purpose of government, which is not to provide for us but merely to protect us so that we may provide for ourselves, then it has robbed us of our capacity to raise our own families and to engage in what gives us strength economically, and that is a free-market system. [cheers and applause]The reason that our tax system is irreparably broken is because in this city it is not really run anymore by 535 members of Congress but the 35,000 lobbyists, 70 to one to the members of Congress, who manipulate the tax code and create winners and losers.The reason that I am a strong supporter of the FAIR tax is that it ends 66,000 pages of gobbledy-gook in the name of the IRS tax code. [cheers and applause] And it ends, once and for all, the completely nonsensical concept that we are to penalize productivity while subsidizing irresponsibility. That is counterintuitive to a strengthened economy. [applause]I talked to a man in Manchester, New Hampshire who was a machinist at the machine shop I was touring. He told me of his daughter who was going to Cornell grad school at the cost of $54,000 a year, which my first thought was, "Thank you, God, my daughter doesn't want to go to Cornell grad school." (Laughter.)But then he told me, he said, "You know, I'm working a second shift so I can help my daughter. But the problem is, working the second shift has put me in a whole new tax bracket. Most of what I'm making in the second shift, the government's taking away from me in higher taxes."I hated to tell him, but the truth is if he gets in that higher tax break, there's other issues as well. If he saves the money, we tax it. If he invests it, we tax the dividends from the stock market. If he buys and sells, we'll tax the capital gains. And if the poor guy keels over dead from working too hard, we'll tax him at his death. No wonder people are frustrated.You know, there's one way he can get some federal help for his daughter. He can quit working altogether, sit home and watch ESPN all day, and then she'll qualify for assistance. [cheers and applause] Now, can anybody tell me that makes sense? [cheers and applause]I've got a better idea. I've got a better idea than the nonsense — a better idea than the nonsense of that 66,000-page tax code that cost American businesses $250 (billion) to $500 billion a year in compliance costs, that's choking the life out of small business. It's a shame that the Republican Party used to be the champion of a small business owners. And we need to be again, because the fact is, 50 percent of our jobs come from there, 80 percent of our new jobs, and even big business starts out as small business. Most big businesses depend on the supplies from small business.And today the reason many small business owners find it hard to survive and compete is because the competition that they face the fiercest is not from their competitors. It's from their own government, with excessive taxation, regulation, and the threat of litigation. [applause]We can change that. I'd like to be the president that puts the IRS out of business, nails the "Going out of business" sign on their front door, and takes these tax forms like this and says to every American, "Goodbye." [cheers and applause](Chants of "We Like Mike!")We should demand transparency and accountability from our government. I would propose that every time the federal government makes any expenditure, it posts it on the Internet within 24 hours so you could find out exactly where every dollar of the federal budget goes, down to what it costs to mow the courthouse lawn in your hometown.Wouldn't that shock some people to find out exactly how our tax money comes in and how it goes out?I believe that it's right to demand that government should facilitate and not complicate the free-market system. I think it's right to believe that mothers and fathers raise better kids than governments do, and we don't need governments telling us how to raise our kids and grow our families. [cheers and applause]And I believe it's right for us to understand something that comes from the very heart of our founding, and that is that life is sacred and should be celebrated and elevated. And ladies and gentlemen, I know that there are some, even in the conservative movement, who think that the issues such as the sanctity of life don't belong in the discussion, but let me tell you why they do and why, under no circumstance, will I ever be able to do anything less than not just support but to be willing to lead a human life amendment to the United States Constitution. And hear me out as to why.From the beginning of this country, our Founding Fathers said it in eloquent words when 56 men put their signatures on a document and they said, "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal and are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; among these, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."At the heart of that statement is this radical idea for 1776 that flew in the face of everything that had been a part of their culture, in which ancestry, last name and net worth were what made a person have worth or not. They said we're all equal.Today I stand here because of their willingness to put their blood on the line to give a kid like me the opportunity to be as equal as the aristocrats. None of us would probably be sitting here talking about our freedom had it not been for their courage in recognizing the equality of all of us.But at the heart of understanding that is that if we are indeed equal, then it means that all of us have intrinsic value and worth, and no one has more than another. And nothing external gives us greater or less worth — not our abilities or disabilities, not our net worth, not our job position, not our last name or ancestry, not our race, not our gender. Not one thing makes us more or less equal.I believe that the sanctity of a human life is rooted in who we are as a culture and a civilization. And should we turn our back on this fundamental truth, we have turned our back on the very essence and foundation of who we are as a people that has always given us that understanding that we leave no man on the battlefield. And even when a Boy Scout is lost in the woods of North Carolina, we go looking for him, because we believe his life has value and meaning, and we care as if it were our own. That's what makes us a great, wonderful, God- blessed nation. [cheers and applause]Let me also say that it is right for our country, in believing in our sovereignty, to demand that we have something that every nation on earth accepts and, in fact, assumes would be a part of its nation's essentials — a secure border. How we can ever believe that we can be a sovereign nation or a free nation without securing our borders is beyond me.And ladies and gentlemen, our national government has miserably failed to do something that most of us all across this country realize. This is a great nation that welcomes people. We're not hostile. We've always been a nation of immigrants. Most of us come from ancestors who immigrated here from somewhere. But we're also a nation of law, and we believe that if you knock on our front door and you're hungry, chances are we'll ask you to sign the guest book and we'll try to feed you and help you. But if you break through the window in the middle of the night, God help you. [cheers and applause]The sad thing is when our own government puts the ladder up against the window. It's a little hard to blame the person climbing up the ladder as much as it is the government who puts the ladder and says, "Go ahead and climb." [cheers and applause] Let's fix what's wrong.I had a boyhood pastor who used to tell me, "If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything." And I believe that that's perhaps true now more than ever.You know, I want to just conclude today by sharing with you that sometimes, in the course of elections, a lot of things get said. People question other people's motives or maybe their qualifications or their credentials. And mine certainly have been questioned from time to time as to whether I was a true conservative.Let me tell you, the critics who have been saying some of those things weren't with me when I was being put in the back of (parades ?) in Arkansas because I had the audacity to be a conservative in a state that didn't really welcome it. They weren't there when my door was nailed shut upon my election as lieutenant government in 1993 — nailed shut by the Democrats in the state capitol, who kept it nailed shut for the first 59 days that I was in office. And I'd get on an elevator; they'd get off. I'd walk down the hall; they'd turn the other way; or the times when I'd go into cafes and restaurants to campaign and people refused to shake my hand because I had the audacity to be a Republican in a state where that just wasn't acceptable.Believe me, I understand what it is to go into a state capitol where there never been a general broad-based tax cut in 160 years and proposed one, and three months later signed it into law, and 94 times after that signed tax cuts into law in a state that didn't know how to handle that before. That's a conservative, folks, against the head winds that weren't easy. [applause]To reform welfare in a state that believed that it was an entitlement, and to take half the people off and get them into jobs, not just take them off welfare but to get them employed, and to see the lowest unemployment numbers in our state and the highest employment numbers and the largest number of new jobs and a 50 percent increase in per capita income and the cutting capital gains tax and the elimination of the marriage penalty and the doubling of the child care tax credit and the indexing of the income tax for inflation and the freezing of property taxes for elderly people so they did not lose their homes because government made them end up having to move away.I understand something about the necessity of that. I remember when legislators were on the capitol steps having news conferences every day calling for — demanding that we have a special session to raise taxes. And I finally created the Tax Me More fund. I said, "There's nothing in the law that says you can't pay more taxes if you feel like you're not paying enough." And I had envelopes printed.Everywhere I made a speech, I'd hold them up. I'd say, "If you feel like you're not paying enough, here's an envelope. Would you like to fill it up? Here, take one." Eighteen months later, $1,200 was all the people of Arkansas thought they had been undertaxed. (Laughter.) A thousand of that was given by a liberal senator who started the whole process of (screaming ?) at it.I spent 10 and a half years' term as governor fighting the corruption of a one-party political machine that I happen to know a little bit about, because I'm the only person who's ever run against the Clinton political machine and beat it four times. (Cheers.) And if you think we've got an easy race this year, let me assure you we don't. [cheers and applause]I stand in this race and I stay in this race not to be a fly in the ointment, because I believe, as Phyllis Schlafly's book taught me in the 1960s, that our party, that our country, is about a choice, not an echo. If people want an echo, they can get it from somewhere else. If they want a choice, I plan to give it to them.There are only a few states that have voted. Twenty-seven have not. People in those 27 states deserve more than a coronation. They deserve an election. [cheers and applause] They deserve the opportunity to have their voices and their votes heard and counted. [applause]I know the pundits and I know what they say. "Well, the math doesn't work out." Folks, I didn't major in math. I majored in miracles, and I still believe in those too. [cheers and applause]A few nights ago, when the tornadoes tore through the South, one of those tornadoes hit the community of Brandenburg, Kentucky. I got an e-mail yesterday from a lady named Lisa Young in Brandenburg, Kentucky. It's a pretty remarkable story, because that tornado didn't just hit her town. It hit her house. But she e-mailed to say that despite the damage to her home, she said there was one thing that was pretty remarkable, and she wanted to make sure that I heard about it, and I did.She said she had a yard sign, a Mike Huckabee yard sign, up in her yard. And she said when the tornado had gone through, she said what was amazing to her was, standing pristine, without a hint of damage or even leaning, she said was that yard sign still standing in her yard. She said, "Mike, I don't know what that means, but all I know is that in Brandenburg, Kentucky, you're still standing."And folks, I want you to know, across America, everywhere there's still a vote to be cast, I'm still standing. (Cheers.)Thank you. God bless you. Thank you very much. [cheers and applause]
[joined in progress]So the next several weeks are going to be the very intense weeks when a lot of delegates are at stake. And a lot will be decided, as far as the long-term impact of where this process is going. But one thing that we have continually said -- and I'm going to reiterate tonight -- that the nomination is not secured until somebody has 1,191 delegates. That has not yet happened. And we're still continuing to work and to give voters in these states a choice. I think if anything that we're doing is important, it's recognizing that the people in the states who have not had their elections have as much right to an election as all of these folks who are frontloaded for either Super Tuesday or prior to that. And if there are these calls to say, "Let's just call it off," well, that's a disservice to the people in Texas, and Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and North Carolina, and Nebraska, and other states and territories who have yet to have that opportunity to vote. So we march on. Every time we win, we're ecstatic. When we don't win, we're disappointed, but we're not knocked out, and we continue to believe that every day provides a new opportunity for us to keep the message going, show the contrast, and hopefully give people in the Republican Party a cause to be for and also to keep it, though, in a respectful and I think the kind of tone and tenor that has, I would like to think, brought some honor to the process. So let me take a few of your questions, and we'll go from there. QUESTION: Governor, tonight Senator McCain's camp, Jill Hazelbaker, said that it is mathematically impossible for Governor Huckabee to secure the nomination. You said the other day that you majored in miracles, not math. Has anyone on your campaign staff done any of their own delegate math? Would you be able to comment on that? MR. HUCKABEE: I mean, we understand, in terms of the conventional process, barring, you know, some something that could happen along the way in the campaign for Senator McCain, or if he doesn't acquire enough delegates, that's really the possibility, that it could go to the convention. So, you know, I hear all the things that are said, but, you know, it's still -- I go back to this fact. And I just can't say it loudly or maybe emphatically enough. You've got to have 1,191. And while it may be mathematically impossible to see how it could play out right now, I know this: Right now, nobody has the 1,191 delegates. And, therefore, it would be a little premature to quit until the game has actually come to a conclusion. And I'll also remind everybody that it was the Republican National Committee who created the rules and the process and said, "Here's what it takes to be the nominee." Nobody's made it to that point yet. And so, you know, I've not been one who believes that you leave the field because it's gotten difficult. You stay, and you keep playing until the last second of the clock has sounded.
Thank you very much. Well, George Brett was one of the greatest baseball players of all time. And in his career for the Kansas City Royals, he was asked, when he was nearing the end of his career, how he wanted his last play in the major leagues to go. Well, everyone assumed that he would say that he wanted to hit a grand slam in the bottom of the ninth to win a game, perhaps even a World Series. He surprised all of the sportswriters, because what he said was, "I want my last play at bat to be that I hit an easy, just one bounce to the second baseman, and they throw me out at first. But I was running as hard as I could toward the bag when they got me." And he said, "Because I want it to be said of George Brett that, no matter what, he played his best game, he gave it his best, all the way to the very end." And he certainly did just that. Ladies and gentlemen, I called Senator McCain a few moments ago. It looks pretty apparent tonight that he will, in fact, achieve 1,191 delegates to become the Republican nominee for our party. I extended to him not only my congratulations, but my commitment to him and to the party to do everything possible to unite our party, but more importantly to unite our country, so that we can be the best nation we can be, not for ourselves, but for the future generations to whom we owe everything, just as we owe previous generations all that they have done for us. Senator McCain has run an honorable campaign because he's an honorable man. One of the things I'm proudest of is that the two campaigns that I believe have been run in the most civil manner are the two in the Republican Party that have lasted on their feet to the final. And I'm grateful for the manner in which he has conducted his campaign. And, quite frankly, with your great help, I'm very proud of the way that you have insisted that we conduct our campaign. And it's been one that we will always be able to say was done with honor. It's now important that we turn our attention not to what could have been or what we wanted to have been, but what now must be, and that is a united party, but a party that, indeed, comes together on those principles that have brought many of us not just to this race, but to politics in general. I have so many people to thank, starting with this lady here to my right, who I still believe... (APPLAUSE) And, by the way, I think it's fitting that she got better applause than me, because she deserves it. She truly does. (LAUGHTER) She's been through so much. She is a magnificent first lady of Arkansas for 10 1/2 years, and I always believed she would be a wonderful first lady for the United States, as well. And I'm grateful for her patience and perseverance through every step of this wonderful journey we've had. I'm grateful for my family. Some of you may have heard me say this, and it's true: My family didn't have to be persuaded or begged to give their permission and blessing for me to get involved in this campaign. In fact, they were ready for me to do it before I was. Truth is, I was the holdout; they weren't. And what a wonderful, magnificent gift they've given me with their loyalty and their dedication, involving themselves with their sleeves rolled up every single day of this effort, giving 110 percent of themselves. And for that, I will always be grateful. I also want to say I've had the best staff that anybody has ever had running for president. And, by the way, I'm pretty sure it's probably the smallest staff that anybody's ever had running for president. Imagine trying to do this with about 30 people. I don't think it's ever been attempted. No one has ever gotten this far with such limited resources. But the fact is what we've been able to do was to ask of every one of our staff that they work as if they were two or three people, and they worked as if they were four. And I want to say thanks to them, every last one of them. (APPLAUSE) I'm also mindful that the real story of this campaign is going to be in the faces of those of you who are here and the literally millions of faces across this country of people who never made the headlines, never led the 6 o'clock news, but who have been the backbone, the heart and the soul of our campaign. The apostle Paul wrote that, "I fought the good fight; I've finished the race; and I've kept the faith." And I believe tonight that one of the things that we will be able to say is not only that we fought the good fight and finished the race; we'd like to have finished it first, but we stayed in until the race was over. But I think, more importantly, we've kept the faith. And that for me has been the most important goal of all. I'd rather lose an election than lose the principles that got me into politics in the first place. (APPLAUSE) We started this effort with very little recognition and virtually no resources. We ended with slightly more recognition and very few resources. (LAUGHTER) But what a journey. What a journey, a journey of a lifetime. It is not lost on me where I started. The prophet Isaiah said, and I've quoted it often, "Look to the rock from which you were hewn, the quarry from which you were dug." I know of the earth from which I have come, the humble circumstances of the son of a firefighter and who worked a second job, barely paying their rent on the rent house in Hope, Arkansas, where we lived, a mother who was oldest of seven kids and grew up in a house, dirt floor, outdoor toilets, no electricity when she was little, parents who, like so many across this country, wanted for their kids to have a better life. I don't think they could've ever imagined that that better life would have included running for president and getting this close to getting there. (APPLAUSE) Let me say, while many among the establishment never really believed I belonged, there were a lot of people in this country who did. And most importantly... (APPLAUSE) ... these are the people across this nation who gave me a voice over these past 14 months. It was their sacrifices, the sacrifices of a truck driver in Michigan, of a housewife who sold her wedding ring on eBay (NASDAQ:EBAY) and gave the contribution to the campaign, a janitor in Alabama who has a wife in a wheelchair who gave $20, not out of his abundance, but out of his poverty, so that our campaign could stay on the track. Those are the folks who have given me a voice, and I only pray to God that I've been able to give them a voice, a voice for the unborn children of this country, a voice for life... (APPLAUSE) ... a voice for the hard-working people who lift everything every day for the rest of us and who carry food to our tables, who pick up the bags, who make great sacrifices and often work two jobs, for every soldier and sailor and airman who puts on a uniform and keeps us free, for every small business owner who hopes that one day he'll be able to succeed not having to overcome his toughest competition, his own government, and that maybe one day his government would facilitate his business, not complicate it. For all of the conservatives of this country and party who want less government and who want what government they have to be a little more efficient, a little more effective, a little less filled with corruption, and a whole lot filled with the kind of competence that we pay for, I also believe that there are people out there for whom I hope I've given a voice, and that's the people who believe that we need to really overhaul our tax system and implement the Fair Tax and get rid of the IRS. (APPLAUSE) And I believe that we've given voice to folks who are single moms and those guys who are out there working two shifts trying to make sure they can just keep the rent paid and put food on the table for their families. All across this country, we've stood at rallies and I have looked into the faces of amazing people who love their country, who cherish their families, who work very hard at their jobs, who worship God, and who give very sacrificially to others, even when it would be very easy for them to keep their time and their money totally to themselves. But they know that's not what made America a great country. It's giving that did. Well, we'll go home tonight and hopefully bring our team together for the transition. We'll be working on doing everything we can to help Senator McCain and to help our party, to help those who run for the Senate and the Congress, because there are many battles this year that we need not just to fight; we need to win them, for our country's sake and our future's sake. (APPLAUSE) It's time for us to hit the reset button. Sometimes when the computer stalls, that's what you do: You hit the reset button. But in doing so, we also recognize the extraordinary privilege that we've had and the amazing people who have been there for the journey. We aren't going away completely. We want to be a part of helping to keep the issues alive that have kept us in this race. And, by the way, I know there were many who thought we wouldn't make it to March '07, much less March '08. And we've done so because so many of you worked beyond your capacity and gave in ways I can't even begin to imagine. Neither Janet nor I have the words to say, "Thanks." We can only thank you with hopefully our future actions, that we will work hard for our country, we will work hard for our party and the nominee, because we love this country and that's why we got in. And until our country is all that we hope and pray it to be, we won't be able to walk away completely. I've said many times here in Texas that I was inspired by the incredible story of that small group of less than 200 volunteers at the Alamo in San Antonio who took refuge in that church mission. And they saw the incredible armies of Santa Ana start massing against them. On February the 23rd of 1836, 172 years ago this past week, those armies began a 24-hour onslaught and bombardment. On the 24th day of February, Colonel William Barret Travis wrote the letter from the Alamo that should reign and live in all of our hearts and memories, not just for Texas, but for all the world, all who love liberty. As he said on the incredible occasion, he said, "The enemy has demanded a surrender at discretion. Otherwise the garrison are to be put to the sword if the fort is taken." He said, "I've answered the demand with a cannon shot and our flag still waves proudly from the walls. I shall never surrender or retreat." "I call upon you in the name of liberty, of patriotism, and everything dear to the American character to come to our aid with all dispatch. The enemy is receiving enforcements daily and will no doubt increase to 3,000 or 4,000 in four or five days." "If this call is neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due to his own honor and that of his country: victory or death." These were people who understood that their battle was not about them. It was about the principles of liberty that they deemed even more important than their own lives. Tonight, I hope that our battle was never about us. It was about our country and its liberty. And now we join with Senator McCain and the rest in our party to continue that battle, to continue that fight, not for who gets elected, but for what we do in maintaining liberty and freedom when we get elected and when our country's flag still waves proudly on the wall. AUDIENCE MEMBER: You're a great American, Mike. MR. HUCKABEE: And you're a great American, as well. Thank you, folks. God bless you. We love you. And thank you very, very much for going the journey with us. Thank you.
Thank you. Well, let me say that, as much as I appreciate this magnificent opportunity to speak tonight, I've got to be honest with you. I was originally hoping for the slot on Thursday night called the acceptance speech. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) But I want you to also know that I am genuinely delighted to be here to speak on behalf of my second choice for the Republican nomination for president, John McCain. (APPLAUSE) John McCain is a man with the character and the stubborn kind of integrity that we need in a president. But I want to begin by doing something a little unusual. I'd like to thank the elite media for doing something that, quite frankly, I wasn't sure could be done, and that's unifying the Republican Party and all of America in support of Senator McCain and Governor Palin. (APPLAUSE) The reporting of the past few days have proven tackier than a costume change at a Madonna concert. (APPLAUSE) I grew up at a time and in a place where the civil rights movement was fought. And I witnessed firsthand the shameful evil of racism. I saw how ignorance and prejudice caused people to do the unthinkable to people of color, and it wasn't so many years ago. I want to say with the utmost of sincerity, not as a Republican, but as an American, that I have great respect for Senator Obama's historic achievement to become his party's nominee, not because of his color, but with indifference to it. (APPLAUSE) Party or politics aside, as Americans, we celebrate this milestone because it elevates our country. But the presidency is not a symbolic job, and I fear that his election would elevate our taxes and our risk in a dangerous world. Now, Obama was right when he said that this election is not about him; it is about you. (APPLAUSE) When gasoline costs $4 a gallon, it makes it tough if you're a single mom trying to get to work each day in a used car that you drive. You want something to change. If you're a flight attendant or a baggage-handler, and you're asked to take the pay cut to keep your job, you want something to change. If you're a young couple losing your house, your credit rating, and your piece of the American dream, you want something to change HUCKABEE: But John McCain offers specific ideas to respond to a need for change. But let me say there are some things we don't want to change: freedom, security, and the opportunity to prosper. Barack Obama's excellent adventure to Europe... (LAUGHTER) ... took his campaign for change to hundreds of thousands of people who don't even vote or pay taxes here. But let me hasten to say that it's not what he took there that concerns me. It's what he brought back: European ideas that give the government the chance to grab even more of our liberty and destroy our hard-earned livelihood. The fact is, my friends, most Americans don't want more government. They want less government. (APPLAUSE) It was -- it was, in fact, the founder of our party, Abraham Lincoln, who reminded us that a government that can do everything for us is the government that can take everything from us. (APPLAUSE) Now, I get a little tired of hearing how the Democrats care so much for the working guy, as if all Republicans grew up with silk stockings and silver spoons. You know, my hometown of Hope, Arkansas, the three sacred heroes were Jesus, Elvis, and FDR, not necessarily in that order. (LAUGHTER) My own father, for example, held down two jobs, barely affording the little rented house that I grew up in. My dad was one of those guys, like so many of your dads. He worked hard. He lifted heavy things. He got his hands dirty. In fact, the only soap we ever had in my house was Lava. Let me explain that. I was in college before I found out it isn't supposed to hurt when you take a shower. (LAUGHTER) Let me make something clear tonight: I'm not a Republican because I grew up rich. I'm a Republican because I didn't want to spend the rest of my life poor, waiting for the government to rescue me. (APPLAUSE) John McCain doesn't want the kind of change that allows the government to reach even deeper into your paycheck and pick your pocket, your doctor, your child's school, or even the kind of car you drive, or tell you how much you have to inflate your tires. (LAUGHTER) And he doesn't want to change the definition of marriage. And unlike the Democratic ticket, Senator McCain and Governor Palin believe that every human life has intrinsic worth and value from the moment of conception. (APPLAUSE) And speaking of Governor Palin, I am so tired of hearing about her lack of experience. I want to tell you folks something. She got more votes running for mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, than Joe Biden got running for president of the United States. (APPLAUSE) John McCain -- John McCain is by far the most prepared, the most experienced, and truly the most tested presidential candidate. He is thoroughly tested. When John McCain received his country's call to service, he did not hesitate and he did not choose the easy path. He sat alone in the cockpit, taking off from an aircraft carrier, to fly in the unfriendly skies, knowing that there was a good chance he might not make it back. And one day, he didn't make it back. He was shot down and captured, brutally tortured. He could have eased his own pain, even cut short his imprisonment, just by uttering a few simple worlds renouncing his country. But then, as now, John McCain put his country first. And he knew -- he knew... (APPLAUSE) ... that to return with honor later was better than to return without it now. (APPLAUSE) Most of us -- most of us can lift our arms high in the air so that we can signify when we want something. He can't even lift his arms to his shoulder, which is a constant reminder that his life is marked not by what he's wanting to receive, but rather by what he has already given. (APPLAUSE) Let me tell you about someone I know who understands this type of sacrifice. On the first day of school in 2005, Martha Cothren, a teacher at the Joe T. Robinson High School in Little Rock, was determined that her students would not take their education or their privileges as American for granted. And with the principal of her school's permission, she removed all the desks from her classroom on that first day of school, 2005. Now, the students walked into an empty classroom and they said, "Ms. Cothren, where's our desk?" She said, "You get a desk in my classroom when you tell me how you earn it." Well, some of them said, "Making good grades." She said, "Well, you ought to make good grades in my class, but that won't earn you a desk." Another student said, "I guess we get a desk when we behave." Martha said, "You will behave in my classroom." (LAUGHTER) But that won't get you a desk either. No one in first period guessed right. Same for second period. By lunch, the buzz was all over the campus. Ms. Cothren had flipped out, wouldn't let her students had a desk. Kids started using their cell phones. They called their parents. And by early afternoon, all four of the local network TV affiliates had camera crews out at the school to report on this teacher who wouldn't let her students have a desk unless they could tell her how to earn it. By the final period, no one had guessed correctly, so the students filed in. Martha said, "Well, I didn't think you would figure it out, so I'm going to tell you." And with that, she went to the door of her classroom and motioned, and in walked over 20 veterans, some of them still wearing the uniforms from days gone by, every one of them carrying a school desk. And as they carefully and quietly arranged those desks in neat rows, Martha said, "You don't have to earn your desk, because these guys, they already did." (APPLAUSE) These -- these brave veterans had gone halfway around the world, giving up their education, interrupting their careers and families so that we could have the freedom that we have. Martha told them, "No one charged you for your desk, but it wasn't really free. These guys bought it for you. And I hope you never, ever forget it." And I wish, ladies and gentlemen... (APPLAUSE) I wish we would all remember that being American is not just about the freedom we have; it is about those who gave it to us. (APPLAUSE) And let me remind you of something. John McCain is one of those people who helped buy the freedom and the school desk that we had. John McCain helped me have a school desk. And I want to tell you: I pledge myself to doing everything I can to help him earn a desk, and I'm thinking the one that's in the Oval Office would fit him very, very well. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) Thank you. God bless you folks. Thank you. Thank you.
