Thank you, Ron. It's an honor to be here today. I appreciate that introduction. Thank you also Uzi Arad for all you and Ron do together to make this conference possible. It's good to be with you today at the Herzliya Conference. It's been a busy day for me today. I began with breakfast with Mel Sembler here in Jerusalem, saw the sun rise, and then along with friends, we traveled together to the border with Gaza, and then helicoptered to Alfe Menashe and then we helicoptered further to the Lebanese border. And we just made it in a few moments ago. I am glad to be in Israel again - in a country I love, with people I love. It's been 10 years since I was last here - then, for about 10 days or so - and the country has changed a great deal in that time. One, it's a lot greener - even more trees - more highways. I was really struck, however, by how vibrant the economy is. I must admit that as someone who spent most of his life in the private sector working with businesses, I have great respect for the ingenuity and the resilience of Israel's workers and entrepreneurs. But the changes are not only economic and they are not only positive. And it is not just that Israel that has changed - the world has changed. Unfortunately, many in our world have not caught up with the new strategic paradigm which we as a world face. In that old view, the Arab-Israeli conflict was thought of as an intractable regional conflict. One that drags on...that should be resolved...but is not part of a global threat to the world order. 9/11 changed that. Or it should have. Contrary to the Baker-Hamilton Commission, resolving the Arab-Israeli conflict will not magically mollify the jihadists. What we should have realized since 9/11 is that what the world regarded as an Israeli-Arab conflict over borders represented something much larger. It was the oldest, most active front of the radical Islamist jihad against the entire world. It was not really about borders. It was about the refusal of many parts of the Muslim world to accept Israel's right to exist - within any borders. This distinction was brought into clear focus this summer. The war in Lebanon had little to do with the Palestinians. It had nothing to do with a two-state solution. It demonstrated that Israel is now facing a jihadist threat that runs from Tehran through Damascus to Southern Lebanon to Gaza. As Tony Blair quite accurately put it, Hezbollah was not fighting 'for the coming into being of a Palestinian state...but for the going out of being of an Israeli state.' Yet I don't think we have still not fully absorbed the magnitude of the change. I think it is critical that we understand that as far as our enemies are concerned, there is just one conflict. And in this single conflict, the goal of destroying Israel is simply a weigh station toward the real goal of subjugating the entire world. Jihadism - violent radical fundamentalism - has emerged as this century's nightmare. It follows the same dark path as last century's nightmares: fascism and Soviet-styled communism. In America, the attack by Al Qaeda has led some to believe that we are threatened by a band of fanatics that live in the mountains of Afghanistan and Pakistan. They imagine that if we could only get Osama Bin Laden and put him away, all this unpleasantness would simply end. But Jihadism is much, much greater. Jihadists are among Sunni and Shia, promoted by Hezbollah and Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood, financed by knowing and unknowing Muslim governments, and preached to hundreds of millions in many nations. Their goal is the overthrow of moderate, modern Muslim nations and their replacement by caliphate. Their strategy is the collapse of our economy, our government, and the military of our nations. To their eyes, this destruction is not delusional, but possible. In my country, as you can imagine, the focus is overwhelmingly on Iraq these days, and that's very much understandable and appropriate. We have some 140,000 men and women there, and there are more on the way, as you know. And we are suffering casualties. Indeed, as you probably saw over the weekend, this has been a particularly painful time for the United States just over the last several days. Thousands of American families continue to make the greatest sacrifice for security in Iraq. And for whatever mistakes America has made and the challenges which we now have before us, we must remain absolutely committed to making every effort for success there. And on that point, I would just like to make another additional thought. And that is that there are some Congressional leaders in the United States right now that are arguing that the President is not authorized to allow our forces in harm's way to pursue Iranian elements inside Iraq - which are attacking our own troops. That is simply folly. But today, I wish to focus on the regime that has become the heart of the Jihadist threat - Iran. I believe that Iran's leaders and ambitions represent the greatest threat to the world since the fall of the Soviet Union, and before that, Nazi Germany. Ahmadinejad has gone well beyond the boundary of outrage, beginning with his calculated desecration of history. Indeed, when he denies the Holocaust, he could care less about history - his point is about the present and the future. His purpose is not to deny the Holocaust, but to deny Israel. He is testing the waters. He wants to know who will object. And how will they register their objection. The Iranian regime threatens not only Israel, but also every other nation in the region, and ultimately the world. And that threat would take on an entirely new dimension if Iran were allowed to become a nuclear power. And just think of the signal a nuclear Iran would send to other rogue regimes with nuclear ambitions - this could be the tipping point in the development and proliferation of nuclear regimes. How should the civilized world respond to this challenge?  "Our first task should be to dispense with three major schools of wishful thinking: The first school concedes that Iran must not be allowed to go nuclear. But that's where the certainty ends. Beyond that recognition, there is only hope - hope that Iran's weakening economy and political rivalries will yield a change in the government's leadership. We're all hopeful, but that's not a strategy. The second assumes that it's possible to live with a nuclear Iran. That thinking is based on the theory that Iran, once granted the privilege of joining the nuclear club, will be a responsible actor. Neither their words nor their records justify that conclusion. The third school believes in the logic of deterrence, which served us through the Cold War, and they think it will apply to Iran. But for all of the Soviets' deep flaws, they were never suicidal. A Soviet commitment to national survival was never in question. This assumption simply cannot be made about an irrational regime that celebrates martyrdom. Each of these three schools of thought represents a rationale for inaction, rather than a strategy for success. Each would in all likelihood yield the same result - an Iran that is nuclear, threatening the world, or worse. They should be rejected. And they should be replaced with an understanding of two fundamental realities: 1) Iran must be stopped 2) Iran can be stopped It's inconceivable to me that some could think otherwise. Their view has to be based upon disbelief - disbelief that Iran's regime means what it says. Few believed that Hitler meant what he said when he called for the destruction of the Jewish people in Mein Kampf. Few believed what Osama bin Laden said, and then came 9/11. As you know, the 9/11 Commission found numerous failures on our part - failures of intelligence, failures of coordination and communication, failures of analysis. But they found that the most critical failure was this: a 'failure of imagination.' Americans simply could not believe that people would crash airplanes full of innocent people into buildings full of innocent people. Since these things happened, can we really dismiss horrific threats as mere rhetoric? A nuclear Iran is unacceptable because, as Defense Secretary Robert Gates pointed out in his confirmation hearings, we have no way of guaranteeing that Iran will not use a nuclear weapon. Many people do understand that Iran must be stopped, but they just don't think it's possible. They see the modest sanctions that the UN took three years to produce. They see Russia refusing to end its cooperation with Iran's nuclear program. They conclude that the UN Security Council will never produce sanctions tough enough - and soon enough - to stop Iran. What is less appreciated, however, is what the US and Europe can do. Yes, we should continue to encourage China and Russia to work with us at the UN Security Council. And from my meetings in Israel over the past few days, and in China a couple of months ago, I have reason to be more optimistic about the role China can play. But we can't sit idle while we wait for more cooperation: The US and Europe can do much more to exploit the vulnerabilities of Iran's regime. In considering a strategy, I think we have to remember that the government and the clerics in Iran are not the sole center of power there. The people of Iran also represent a major source of power. By and large, they have not been as radicalized by their government and clerics. They fear economic stagnation and they fear political repression. Most are not seeking a military confrontation with the West. Indeed, most want greater engagement with the West - there's a reason, for example, why there are more than 75,000 bloggers active in Iran today. A successful strategy on our part has to consider and encompass the people of Iran, as well as their leaders. That being said, let me just talk for a moment about a strategy which I think should be pursued. It includes five major dimensions: First, we should continue to tighten the economic sanctions. Our model should be at least as severe as the sanctions we imposed on Apartheid South Africa. We should demand no less from the international community today than we gave then. The Bush Administration, I believe, deserves credit for the efforts it's made on the economic track so far. The Administration's campaign to deny Iran access to the international banking system is crucial. The US and Europe should ensure that Iran finds it very difficult to obtain credit - very difficult to make purchases in foreign currencies. We also have to be imaginative in the way we pressure Iran economically and send a message to its leaders and its people that the world is not happy. In my meetings in Israel this week, I have become aware of a potential US pension system to further isolate the Iranian economy. We should explore a selective disinvestment policy. After a series of briefings here, I actually contacted the Treasurer of my own state of Massachusetts and the Governors of some of the neighboring states to begin this process. They are going to begin meeting today with senior Israeli leaders that are in Boston today. Second, we need to impose diplomatic isolation of Iran's Government. Ahmadinejad should not be provided the trappings, and respect, and recognition of a responsible head of state as he travels. In fact, when former Iranian President Khatami traveled to Boston last year to lecture at Harvard University, I denied him state police security for his visit. Of course, the real question is: why did Harvard invite him in the first place? I was in another foreign capital traveling and I saw a 707 I believe it was and flags draped along the passageway from the doorway all the way to the terminal, flags a red carpet, and I asked, 'Who's that?' And they said, 'Oh President Ahmadinejad is here visiting.' And I thought 'Is that the kind of welcome for a man who says what he said?' I don't believe that's what should happen in this country, in this world. Ahmadinejad, of course, is even more strident and violent spokesman than Khatami was. He should neither be invited to foreign capitals nor feted by foreign leaders. This would have an important symbolic significance, not just to Ahmadinejad, but to the people of Iran. The message must be heard loud and clear. Diplomatic isolation should also include an indictment of Ahmadinejad for incitement to genocide under the Geneva Convention, excuse me the Genocide Convention. The United States should lead this effort. The full title of the Genocide Convention is the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Remember that word: Prevention. Article III of the treaty establishes 'public incitement to commit genocide' is a punishable crime. Every signatory to this treaty shares an obligation to enforce it. So do human rights groups that care about international humanitarian law. Nobel Prize Winner Elie Wiesel, and human rights advocate and former Canadian Justice Minister Irwin Cotler have spoken out on this issue. In addition, former U.S. Ambassador John Bolton has been a forceful advocate for this effort, and he's joined by Alan Dershowitz. If these two can agree, there must be something to it. Third, Arab states must join this effort to prevent a nuclear Iran. These states can do much more than wring their hands and urge America to act. They should support Iraq's nascent government, they can help America's focus on Iran by quickly turning down the temperature of the Arab-Israeli conflict, stopping the financial and weapons flows to Hamas and Hezbollah, thawing relations with Israel, and telling the Palestinians they must drop terror and recognize Israel's right to exist. Fourth, we have to make it clear that while nuclearization may be a source of pride to the Iranian people, it also should be considered as a source of peril. The military option remains on the table. And further, any people should know that if nuclear material their own nation develops falls into the hands of terrorists and would be used that would surely provoke a devastating response from the civilized world to any who provided that fissile material. Fifth, our strategy should be integrated into a broad approach to the broader Muslim world. I agree with our friend, former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain, that a central purpose of NATO should be to defeat radical Islam. And I believe this has two critical dimensions. On the one hand, is an unquestionably capable military. That's key. That's at the heart of things. That will mean a greater investment by the United States as well as other nations. But there's a second dimension as well. It's what I'll call a partnership for progress - a global partnership which includes NATO and other allies. Its mission would be to support progressive Muslim communities and leaders in every nation where radical Islam is battling modernity and moderation. This Partnership for Prosperity should help provide the tools and funding necessary for moderates to win the debate in their own societies. They need secular public schools, not Wahhabi schools, micro credit and banking, the rule of law, adequate healthcare, human rights, and competitive economic policies. In the final analysis, only Muslims will be able to permanently defeat radical Islam. But we can and should help. We should remember that in the two other global confrontations with totalitarianism in the past century, it was not always obvious that the West would prevail. Indeed, in those conflicts, the balance of power was not always in the West's favor. Those were wars we could have lost, but we did not. In the current conflict, the balance of forces is not nearly as dangerously close as it was during the moments of World War II and the Cold War. There is no comparison between the economic, diplomatic, and military resources of the civilized world and the weak terrorist states that threaten us. In those previous global wars, there were many ways to lose, and victory was far from guaranteed. In the current conflict, there is only one way to lose, and that is if we as a civilization decide not to lift a finger to defend ourselves, our values, and our way of life. It is time for the world to plainly speak three truths: One, Iran must be stopped. Two, Iran can be stopped. And three, Iran will be stopped Thank you so much."
Governor Romney's Five Step Plan Of Action To Prevent A Nuclear Iran:  " First, we must continue tighten economic sanctions. Our model should be at least as severe to the sanctions imposed on Apartheid South Africa. We should demand no less from the international community today ... "We must also be imaginative in the way we pressure Iran economically - an issue I have been looking into. In my meetings this week in Israel, I have become aware of the potential of U.S. pension funds to further isolate the Iranian economy. We should explore a selective disinvestment policy. After a series of briefings here, I have contacted the Treasurer of my own state of Massachusetts and Governors of other states to begin this process by meeting today with senior Israeli leaders in Boston. " Second, we must impose diplomatic isolation of Iran's Government. Ahmadinejad should not be provided the trappings, respect, and recognition of a responsible head of state as he travels. In fact, when former Iranian President Khatami traveled to Boston last year to lecture at Harvard University, I denied him state police security for his visit. The real question is: why was he invited in the first place? Ahmadinejad is even more strident than Khatami. He should neither be invited to foreign capitals nor feted by foreign leaders. This would have important symbolic significance, not just to Ahmadinejad, but to the people of Iran. "Diplomatic isolation should also include an indictment of Ahmadinejad for incitement to genocide under the Genocide Convention. The United States should lead this effort. "The full title of the Genocide Convention is the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Remember that word: Prevention. "Article III of that treaty establishes that 'public incitement to commit genocide' is a punishable crime. Every signatory to this treaty, including the U.S. and most European countries, shares an obligation to enforce it. So do human rights groups that care about international humanitarian law. "Nobel Prize Winner Elie Wiesel, and human rights advocate and former Canadian Justice Minister Irwin Cotler have spoken out on this issue. "In addition, former U.S. Ambassador John Bolton has been a forceful advocate for this effort, and is joined by Alan Dershowitz. If these two can agree, they must be on to something. " Third, Arab states must join this effort to prevent a nuclear Iran. These states can do much more than wring their hands and urge America to act. They should support Iraq's nascent government, They can help America focus on Iran by quickly turning down the temperature of the Arab-Israeli conflict - stopping the financial and weapons flows to Hamas and Hizbullah ... thawing relations with Israel ... and telling the Palestinians they must drop terrorism and recognize Israel's right to exist. " Fourth, we must make it clear that while nuclearization may be a source of pride, it can also be a source of peril. The military option remains on the table. And further, nuclear material that falls into the hands of terrorists would surely provoke a devastating response from the civilized world. " Fifth, our strategy should be integrated into a broader approach to the broader Muslim world. I agree with our friend, former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain, that a central purpose of NATO should be to defeat radical Islam. I believe this has two critical dimensions. The first is an unquestionably capable military. This will mean a greater investment by the United States as well as other nations. The second is a global partnership which includes NATO and other allies. Its mission would be to support progressive Muslim communities and leaders in every nation where radical Islam is battling modernity and moderation. This Partnership for Prosperity should help provide the tools and funding necessary for moderates to win the debate in their own societies. They need secular public schools, micro credit and banking, the rule of law, adequate healthcare, human rights, and competitive economic policies. In the final analysis, only Muslims will be able to permanently defeat radical Islam. And we can help."  Other Key Excerpts Of Governor Romney's Remarks As Prepared For Delivery:  "And on Iraq, I would just like to make another point. Some Congressional leaders in the United States today are arguing that the President is not authorized to allow our forces to pursue Iranian elements inside Iraq - which are attacking our own troops. That would be folly."
[Below are key excerpts of Governor Romney's remarks as prepared for delivery.] Governor Romney's Conservative Leadership:  "When I ran for governor, I ran as a fiscal conservative - I had a background in building businesses, and I could tell there was a better way to run our state government. Massachusetts, like a lot of states in 2002, was facing a fiscal crisis - and I wanted to help solve that crisis, without resorting to higher taxes. "I am proud to say that we did just that - but a funny thing happened along the way. The fiscal crisis was solved, but a new set of crises began. "Massachusetts became a center stage for the most divisive issues facing our nation today. "The issue of gay marriage came up. In the 2002 campaign, I was asked for my view on the matter, and I gave it - I was then and remain today, opposed to gay marriages and civil unions. "But a year later, judges decided to legalize gay marriage in the state - the voters didn't get to decide, the legislature didn't get to decide, certainly I wasn't asked for my opinion, and I guess 3,000 years of recorded history didn't matter either. By a 4 to 3 margin, the judges on the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court decided to redefine the institution of marriage. "And meanwhile, just a few T stops from the Statehouse, over at Harvard; scientists were preparing to clone human embryos - experimenting with human life itself. "I didn't ask for these issues to be put on my plate. But as Governor I didn't have the luxury of silently sitting on the sidelines. I spent a lot of time looking at these issues, talked to a lot of people, and thought seriously about them and their implications. "The issues of marriage and life are at the heart of a civil society. We need to be wary of those who experiment with life, who experiment with our kids, and those who toy with the building blocks of the family and society. "The sad truth is that these experiments have been playing out for decades, and the ones who pay the price for failure are not the scientists, or the university sociologists, or the judges, or the liberal policymakers - the ones who pay the price for liberal experiments sometimes don't even have a voice. And it's time they have a voice. "So on the issue of life, this fiscal conservative became a social conservative as well. I'm committed to defending the institution of marriage, family, and human life. "I believe in a divine creator. And I believe every single person in the entire world is a child of God - and that as a civilized people we ought to respect life. "I believe fundamentally that there's nothing more important to society than the family. "And I believe in treating all people with respect and dignity and tolerance despite our differences."  Governor Romney On The Right Strategy To Prevent A Nuclear Iran:  "Someone else considering a run for the White House recently addressed the Iran issue, and you won't be surprised to find out that I don't agree with her approach. "In a speech last night in New York City, Senator Hillary Clinton said that she needs to quote 'understand' unquote Iran better - and to help her with her education process, that we should quote 'engage Iran' unquote. "Friends, someone who doesn't understand Iran hasn't been paying attention - at this point, we don't need a listening tour with Iran. While I support gathering intelligence about our adversaries in any way possible, engaging is not the right policy. To the contrary, economic and diplomatic isolation must be our priority. "Indeed, she argued that our strategy of engagement with the Soviet Union during the Cold War was a model for how we could deal with Iran. Now, for all the former Soviet Union's flaws, at least they maintained a commitment to national survival. They were not suicidal. The same cannot be said about the Iranian regime. And we must stop making analogies that are disconnected from the world in which we operate. "And someone who wants to engage Iran displays a troubling timidity towards a terrible threat."
[Excerpt Of Governor Romney's Remarks As Prepared For Delivery:] "Recently, the question of how we deal with Iran has been the subject of debate between myself and another potential White House candidate. "In a speech two days ago in New York City, Senator Hillary Clinton said that she needs to quote 'understand' unquote Iran better - and we need to quote 'engage Iran' unquote. She argued that our strategy of engagement with the Soviet Union during the Cold War was a model for how we could deal with Iran. "I believe this strategy to be a mistake, and yesterday, to a group of fellow conservatives, I said as much. Advocating engagement displays a troubling timidity toward a terrible threat. The right strategy is not engagement, but economic and diplomatic isolation. "Instead of responding to my policy criticisms, Senator Clinton has chosen to attack me personally. Let's take a step back and consider the broader and more pressing issue at hand - Iran, Syria, Hizbullah, and Hamas and the threat they pose to us, Israel, and the civilized world. "Ten days ago, I was in Israel and heard firsthand from those who have been on the front lines of the war against the Jihadist radicals. Indeed, just a few months ago, the Israelis were confronted with a war by Hizbullah, a terrorist organization sponsored by Iran and Syria. "Against the backdrop of last summer's war, I was especially stunned to learn that Senator Clinton is now advocating for better 'understanding' of Iran, Syria, Hizbullah, and Hamas. Rather than attacking me, why doesn't she join me in calling for a policy that puts even more pressure - not less - against these adversaries?"
Quite an introduction. I must admit - I love exaggeration and hyperbole when it applies to me and I, I appreciate that very, very much." ... We used to drive Ramblers - I had the Rambler Station Wagon for my dates. My friends called it 'Mrs. Romney's Grocery Getter.' I used to ask my dad, 'How in the world can you compete as head of America Motors when you've got such huge competitors, GM, Ford, Chrysler, the big three - how do you possibly think you can succeed?' And he'd say in a way that I have not forgotten: 'Mitt, there's nothing as vulnerable as entrenched success. There's nothing as vulnerable as entrenched success.' And over the years, we've seen companies that have become complacent and they get passed by nimble upstarts. Big steel was overtaken by the mini mills, the main line air carriers are seeing a real run for their money from people like Jet Blue and Southwest, and perhaps the most interesting of these cases comes from the computer industry, where IBM was overtaken by Digital and in mini-computers, and then Digital was overtaken by Wang in work stations, and then Wang was overtaken by Compaq in desktops, then, of course, a new distribution model from Dell took over Compaq, and then now you've got HP making another run at, at Dell. It's extraordinary to see what happens. But there are many companies that are able to maintain their lead, over many, many years. And these are the ones that remain vigilant, that change as their industry faces challenges. Names like GE, and Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, Motorola come to mind. The same can be true for countries. About 100 years ago, at the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria, I'm sure people in the audience could not have imagined that any country would ever overtake Great Britain as the world's economic and military superpower. But 50 years later, we had. It's inconceivable to us today that we could in any way be passed by any other nation. We've been competing with Europe so long that we've gotten a little over-confident. But look east. Asia is emerging as an economic powerhouse. And that's great news, people who couldn't buy our products in the past are now able to buy our goods and services - I must admit, I was delighted in December when I was over in Beijing to see so many Buicks driving around town. But it's also a real challenge as they emerge out of poverty. Will Rogers used to say, 'Even if you're on the right track, if you don't move, you'll get run over.' So standing still isn't a viable option for America. The question for us is this: what direction should we take? History can be a guide for us. The 20th century saw two economic systems pitted against each other. Ours was built on free enterprise and the preeminence of the consumer. The Soviet Union's was built on government control and command, and the preeminence of the state. Ours produced the most powerful economy in the world and it gave its citizens a standard of living our grandparents would have never dreamed possible; theirs produced a downward spiral standard of living and a collapsed economy. That 20th century history lesson is what has made us understand why America's economy is so strong and that is because we put our trust in the American people, and in the free enterprises the free American people create. I spent some 25 years, as John indicated, working in the private economy, starting businesses, acquiring businesses, consulting to businesses, managing businesses. I've invested in companies in Germany, Italy and New Zealand. I've negotiated in China and Ecuador. I've managed businesses in Japan and Russia. You get a lot better in educating yourself by being in the arena than you do by sitting in the bleachers. My successes and failures, by the way, have given me some insights on what I think it takes to grow a business, and an economy, and a nation. And today, I'd like to offer a few perspectives. Let me begin with our objectives. On the screen, I hope you can read that, well, maybe you can, maybe you can't, it's a long way away. I'm going to read them. Objective: Remain an Economic Superpower-we can't be a military superpower unless we're also an economic superpower. A Growing Economy-growth is essential if you want to have a future that's brighter than your past. Shared Prosperity-economic success that's only narrowly shared will divide a nation ultimately and kill the entrepreneurial spirit and opportunity to pursue happiness. That's the quintessential American hope and dream - that every person has the opportunity to achieve the success that they desire in their own heart. Now, the words may sound a little academic there, but don't forget these objectives are very critical to human interests, a higher standard of living, greater job security, a brighter future for our children and income security for our senior years. Now my experience has taught me that there are a lot of things that create a growing economy and a vibrant nation. Let me look at five of them in particular. Next slide, please. - Skilled and educated and motivated people, on the top of my list. - Free Trade, On The Level - Capital and Savings - Innovation and Technology - Consumer Freedom But, in addition to the things which propel the growth of an economy and create a higher standard of living for our citizens are those things which put in a braking action. On the other side of this equation, next slide, are these five: - Excessive Taxation and Spending - Excessive Regulation - Excessive Burdens on Business Activity - Excessive Health Care Costs - Excessive Energy Costs Now, part of the history of America can be seen by looking at that slide - we've done very well educating our people, making sure they have the skills they need to compete, making sure we have open markets that we can participate in, having adequate capital, assuring that we have the leading edge in innovation and technology and relying on the consumer to point the way. We've also done our very best to hold down taxation - John F. Kennedy did that, Ronald Reagan did that, George W. Bush did that. We tried to pare back government regulation when we can. We've also tried to take off burdens on our business activity to hold down our energy costs, and as a result, we've had a vibrant, fast-growing economy over these last 30 years. Now, you'll be relieved to hear that I'm not going to dwell on every single one of those ten today in great depth, but I want to give you a few thoughts about a number of them. Let me begin on the one of the far left, which is education. Our schools are falling behind those of other nations - you've seen that. It's true particularly in math and science. Our 15 years olds ranked 24th out of 29 OECD nations in math. 24th out of 29. Our high school seniors rank in the bottom 10% in math and the bottom 25% in science. How can you lead the world if the kids in the next generation are falling behind in the skills they need to innovate and create new enterprises? Now, when I became Governor, I sat down with educators and leaders and said, 'What do I have to do to improve our schools?' And some folks said to me, 'Well, you have to get a much smaller classroom size. That's key.' Coming from the private sector, I don't just take people's advice, I ask for the data. We have 351 cities and towns in Massachusetts. I said, 'Let's do something, let's compare the average classroom size of all of our school districts with our performance of the young people on our statewide exams.' Because we have statewide exams that determine how well our kids are doing. The chart we expected would have the trend you see in the next slide. That is, on the bottom, you have the classroom size, from the large classes on the far right-hand side to smaller classes on the left. And then we had how well our schools - our students - were performing. High performers on the top, low performers on the bottom. If there's a strong relationship between how big your classrooms are and how well the kids are doing, there should be a pattern along that line you see - a downward sloping line. But here's the real data: you can see those red dots, you can see there's no relationship at all. As a matter of fact, some of the districts that had the smallest classes had the worst performance on the student scores. And vice versa. And so we decided to spend a little more time talking to teachers and parents and people who'd focused on education - educators and others. And they came up with a list of things that would really make a difference in education. Let me show you some of those. First, was making sure that we treated teaching as a profession - not just as a labor job, an hourly labor job. We wanted to make sure that we gave bonuses to our teachers for having math and science capability and AP credentials. We wanted to have bonuses for superior work. We wanted to make sure that we could provide incentives for higher academic achievement. As a matter of fact, we put into place in our state a scholarship called the Adams Scholarship - you score in the top quarter of your high school class on your state exam and you're entitled to 4 years tution-free at our state universities or state colleges. And so those were the kinds of commitments we made. We also said, 'If you want to improve schools, give every kid a laptop computer, make sure that we also have math and science academies where our best and brightest kids can go.' English immersion: we put this in place in our state, no more bilingual education. We said if you want to be successful in a nation that speaks English, you've got to be fluent in English. We also felt it was critical to measure student performance, put in place a graduation exam, we insisted on school choice, longer school days, parental involvement. Parental involvement means not only a preparatory effort to help our parents get up to snuff, but also to make sure that we do everything we can to have two-parent families. There's nothing like a mom and a dad to help kids be successful in school. These are the ideas that make a real difference in education. We've got to raise the bar folks, or the future is not going to be as bright as the past. Let me turn to another topic and that's capital. Of course capital flows quite easily around the world, but even so new ideas and new technologies tend to be funded by people who are close to home. My venture capital experience taught me that companies close to where we lived and where we work had a better chance to get funded than those that were far around the world. Capital at home today is quite plentiful, but ultimately capital here is enhanced when people are investing their savings in the economy - in the future. And that chart up there shows that our savings rate is looking pretty grim. The bars that are upward in number show that two, three percent kind of savings rate that we've had over the past several years, but in the last year-and-a-half, we actually have a negative personal savings rate. Now the government has come up with all sorts of savings programs for our families, I'm told there are as many as 20 different plans. They present a daunting phalanx of penalties and rules. The government lets us save, but only if we do it in the way the nanny state tells us we can save. It's time to make saving easy in America. I believe people should be allowed to earn interest dividends and capital gains, up to a certain amount per year, tax-free and without restrictions on how or when their savings or investments are spent. As an example, let's take the number of 5,000 bucks. Let's say, and that's not a final number, but let's use 5,000 dollars as an example for joint filers. What I'd say is people ought to be able to save annually or to be able to receive income annually, in capital gains, dividends in interest on 5,000 bucks and not have to pay any taxes on it at all, and not have to worry where that investment got spent. This would help the middle class to be able to invest and save. It also would allow them to spend their savings the way that Americans like to spend their savings, - any way they want. Let me turn to free trade for a moment. My growth factors - don't show the chart yet, we'll get there in a second. My growth factors include free trade. There'll be a growing clamor in this country for isolation and protectionism. Just wait for that '08 campaign to get underway, you're going to hear it time and time again. Protectionism might feel good for a few years, but then we'd be passed by the products that met the new world competitive standards like we were standing still. Protectionism would virtually guarantee that America would become a second-tier economy in a couple of decades, with a second-class standard of living. At the same time we have to make sure that the rules of free trade are fair. It's time to make sure China's markets, for instance, are open to our goods. And it's time to sure they enforce our intellectual property rights as well as they enforce their own. Try to counterfeit an Olympic tee-shirt in Beijing, for instance, and see how long it takes for them to find you. No, the easy money for the criminal counterfeiters is in software, entertainment, pharmaceuticals: the things that we export. Fair trade has to be fair in both directions, but don't forget, it's good for all of us. Let's look at technology. Without serious question, America is the innovation capital of the world. That chart you can put up now shows the patents issued by the U.S. Patent Office. The red bars are patents issued to American enterprises, the yellow are those that come from all the other nations in the world. We lead the world, one country leads the entire world in patent applications. The Internet started here, biotech is headquartered here, Microsoft is here. But China and other nations aren't going to just cede permanently our leadership in innovation and technology. Now and then I hear people say that it's probably good economics for manufacturing to go from here, to go to Asia, because they can do it there cheaper. Then they go on and say, 'But we'll continue to keep the design and engineering right here, they'll just do the manufacturing.' But that belies very little experience in the real world. My experience is that design and innovation ultimately are done best next to manufacturing. Those that are proximate tend to get the best designs and the most innovative ideas. If the Chinese are making a product, you better expect them someday to be engineering it and designing it as well. It's critical, therefore, that America maintain our lead in manufacturing, if we also want to maintain our lead in innovation. Now you know that where America invests in technology we lead the world. Places like healthcare and defense technology. Let me just show you a chart that shows how our investment dollars are spent at the federal government level. The dark blue portion of that bar is money spent in health and the other areas are in the lines below. I'd like to make sure that we review how government invests our research dollars, because I want to see more research dollars going into power generation, fuel technology, materials science. I think it's critical that America continue to invest in our future in technology. It is what will allow us to lead the nations of the world for generations to come. Now I mentioned five of the factors which accelerate our growth. How about those that slow down our growth? Let me look at those. Here's where they've seen, perhaps, the most dramatic change over the last 30 years. I was with BiBi Netanyahu, the prime minister of Israel. He said that when he came into Israel that the economy was shrinking not growing. He said as he looked at what was going on and talked to business leaders, he said it reminded him a bit of the first day of basic training in the Israeli army. They lined everybody up along a football field, they said take the person next to you and put them on your shoulders, we're going to have a race. And he said he had a big guy on his shoulders, so he couldn't run very fast. But somebody next to him had a real small guy on his shoulders and he won the race. He said the guy running the race, those are your corporations, your enterprises, your inventors. The guy on the shoulders, that's your government. And if government's too big it slows down the inventors and the entrepreneurs. Now BiBi didn't come up with this all by himself. Ronald Reagan saw the same thing back in 1982. He and his team initiated a three-part strategy for our sclerotic economy. He said number one, we need to have a steady monetary policy, number two, deregulate, number three, we want sweeping tax cuts. Those three ingredients, low inflation, deregulation and tax relief lay the foundation for an economic renaissance, and help to unleash the spirit of enterprise in this country. What Alex de Tocqueville had once called America's restlessness of temper. By contrast the European path led to high unemployment and anemic job growth. Now the big issue we're going to face coming soon is taxes. What is the better course for America? A European model of high taxes and regulations, or low taxes and free trade, the Ronald Reagan model? That's the choice the next president is going to make. Some of course are already working hard to implement a massive tax increase. Let me show you what it would look like. On the left-hand portion of that chart where you see the squiggly line go up and down, that's the taxation in the United States, the federal taxation is a percentage of GDP. It's gone up and down but pretty much level, over a bunch of years, around 18 percent. You'll see that big decline in the middle of the graph, that's what happened when President Bush instituted the tax cuts, as well as the recession in our economy. When the economy went south he said we need to lower taxes to get it going again and boy did it work, seven-million new jobs later. The chart to the right shows what would happen, the top line, if you saw a big tax cut, tax increase rather. That shows what would happen if the Bush tax cuts were allowed to expire. You'd see a massive tax increase, which without question would halt this economy in its tracks. If you see the flat line around 18 percent, that's what happens if the Bush tax cuts are made permanent. So its pretty simple, isn't it? It's absolutely critical that we don't have that massive tax hike and instead we make the Bush tax cuts permanent. We need reform of our tax code. We need to move it toward a system that's encouraging of growth, fairness and simplicity. Now of course some people want to increase taxes because they want to spend more. When the party that's been in charge has been our own, I'm a little embarrassed to say that we haven't distinguished ourselves by reigning in spending. The chart that I'm going to show now, go ahead, shows spending by year in non-military discretionary accounts. The last few years there aren't as low as I'd like them to be. If we're serious about holding down taxes, we have to be serious about fundamental reforms to government and to entitlements. I have a pretty simple idea about how to keep our spending in check: give Congress a specific spending number and insist that that number is hit. If Congress doesn't hit that target, then its appropriations bills shall be vetoed, I regularly exercised my veto power when I was governor. The alternative of course is for the Congress to vest the President with a power held by Governors in some 43 states, including my state, the line-item veto. And it's time, at long last, that the federal government is taken through the kind of cost and quality improvement process, and the kind of benchmarking process, and the kind of best practices process, that you in the private enterprise world carry on almost every single year. The duplication and waste, and inefficiency in government is absolutely mind boggling. Our greatest challenge though is in entitlements. This next chart shows entitlements as a percentage of GDP. The bar on the left is where we are right now. A little over 8 percent of GDP is spent on Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Fifty years from now the bar on the right would be in existence. That would say that we would be spending about 18 to 20 percent of our entire GDP on those entitlements. If you recall from my earlier slide, that is the total amount of taxation we receive. That would say that on the current trend, these entitlements would completely take over the federal budget and taxes would have to go through the roof. Our economy would be stalled. Today's seniors are living in a world that almost no one could have imagined. The inventiveness and vitality of our pharmaceutical and biotech industries and our healthcare providers have meant groundbreaking advances and long life and I say it is worth it. But when Social Security and Medicare were created, they were meant to solve a particular need - seniors living in poverty and without healthcare. They have done that. Now it's time to address a new set of challenges. In the case of Social Security - we know the levers we can pull to bring it under control. It is time for Republicans and Democrats to come together and agree on a solution. Medicare and Medicaid are going to require more fundamental reform to tame their runaway costs. How to do it? Well some people are going to say the best way to reform health care is have the government take it over, a single payer system, let the tax payer pick up the bill. As P.J O'Rourke once said, 'If you think health care is expensive now, wait till it is free.' My suggestion is that the European model for solving health care is not the model at all. There is an American reform model: apply free market principles and individual responsibility. We took steps to do that in my state this last year. Here are the keys. Make sure that the consumer of health services cares how much those services cost. Number two, get everyone in the system. You can't have people showing up at the hospital expecting free care because that ends up being passed on to everybody else. Let me turn to another topic, tort reform. It's a big burden on our economic future. Last year, I was shocked to see that U.S. corporations spent more money defending tort claims than they spent on research and development. I spoke with one member of the plaintiff's bar the other day. He said that tort lawyers are O.K. with state level tort reform, just not federal tort reform. You know what that means - as long as there is one lawsuit-friendly state, they can sue virtually any deep-pockets company in America. No thanks, America needs national tort reform. Our regulatory burden is overbearing. I'd re-institute a regulatory relief board to cut back on the regulations that choke off growth. Energy. Another burden on our future is our dependence on foreign energy. Every year, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars, sending it to countries for oil imports, and many of those countries don't like us. It's bad for our economy, it's bad for our foreign policy, it's bad for our environment. A reasonable and thoughtful energy equation has to have two sides. On one side is supply - it means developing alternative sources of energy, liquefied coal, nuclear power, biofuels, and other sources of renewable energy. It also means investing to develop new technology, and obtaining oil from domestic sources such as oil shale, enhanced oil recovery, ANWR and the Outer Continental Shelf. The other side of the equation is demand. We need to become more energy efficient - we use twice as much energy per person as a European, four times as much energy as the Japanese. Pursuing policies to reduce our per capita energy consumption is a critical step towards becoming energy independent. This kind of a national goal of energy independence can't be achieved by simply counting on the market to do its job. And that is because the oil market is managed by a cartel. It makes no sense to continue to live in a fiction that says it behaves like a market. We cannot allow our future and our growth and prosperity to be held in the grip of an oil cartel, particularly when it includes people like Chavez and Ahmadinejad. What does this mean for Detroit? Well, it means that the automotive fleet will have to become more fuel efficient. CAF improved mileage initially, but the consumer has gotten around it over the last couple of decades. You've seen the chart. This next chart shows fuel economy rising like crazy from 75 to 80 as those CAF requirements came into place. And then it has actually been flat to downward ever since. CAFE has some real problems as a vehicle for bringing down average fleet economy. It distorts the market. It penalizes the domestic automakers. It can ignore technical realities. So before I'd change the CAFE standards, I want to sit down with every major knowledgeable party and evaluate the alternatives. A good number have been proposed; let's decide which is the best course by looking at the data and carrying out analysis, rather than by playing to the TV cameras. Let's not forget though that a far more efficient fuel fleet is going to be necessary for our energy future. The issue is to find the least distorting way to accomplish that goal. By the way, I get a little tired of listening to supposed experts coming on TV and saying that Detroit just can't make cars that Americans want. Domestic cars, as you know, are burdened with over $2,000 more in healthcare and pension costs than a car that comes from Toyota for instance. To be competitive, American innovators right here in Michigan have come up with what I will call, wow styling - look at the Dodge for instance; super quality - look at the Ford Fusion; and extra ordinary power plant fuel economies - look at the Chevy Silverado. As the son of an old auto guy, I got to say, I think Detroit deserves to be proud! America faces new challenges. Some are unprecedented. If we fail to react, to adjust, we could fall behind our potential. The standard of living of our citizens could fail to keep pace. The future could be less prosperous than the past. There are some who insist that the way to address these new challenges is by growing government, growing spending, raising taxes, protecting ourselves from the rest of the world by building isolating barriers and regulations. A government-centered strategy has been tried before, first by the Soviets, then by European welfare states. It has lead to economic stagnation, falling standards of living and high unemployment. To take the same path they have taken and expect a different destination is foolishness. It is the American way that leads to a brighter future for our children, to higher incomes, to a more secure employment, and to a more secure retirement. The American way, tested and proven, is low taxes, open markets, low burdens on employment, excellent education, good healthcare and reliable energy. The American way will help us build a new American dream, for all Americans. It will be built in strong families and good schools, by innovative and nimble businesses, and by leaders who know that it is the people of America - free, hard-working, innovative people - that make America the hope of the world. Thank you so much."
Oh gosh, look at this group of friends, my goodness, thank you so much. What friends here! Boy this warms my heart to see you all here, to have my family over there to my side, my sweetheart introducing me, some extraordinary things around me. It's an honor to be here with you. I am happy to be in Michigan. I'm happy to have my brother Scott and sister Lynn here. And as Anne said, we're proud to have all of our kids and grandkids here - there's some 20 in total. . Michigan is of course the place where Ann and I were born and it's the place where we fell in love. Well, we still love each other and we love Michigan! During Mom and Dad's campaigns, I visited all 83 counties of Michigan, doing my best to convince Michiganders that George Romney and Republicans could do a good job getting Michigan prosperous again.  "Now, you knew my dad. He was a business leader, he was a governor, he was a tireless promoter of volunteerism. But he came from very humble roots. He was a lath and plaster person originally. He never graduated from college. But he made his dreams come true like many, many other Americans. And he made a difference. My father worked here to improve Detroit Schools. He worked to help write a new state constitution. And he worked as your governor for six years trying to get Michigan on the move again. His character and his integrity left an impression that has lasted through the decades. It was Mom, though, who did the lion's share of raising Lynn, Jane, Scott and me. Dad used to say, that as a successful Mom, she had accomplished more than he ever did. Later she worked in charities, and then foster care, in music and the arts, and in volunteerism. She even ran for U.S. Senate. I always imagined that I'd come back to Michigan someday. That's why I took the bar exam here. I hadn't imagined it would happen this way, but I am back today - thank you Michigan. Now, I chose this site for a number of reasons. It's filled with cars and memories. Dad and I loved cars. Most kids read the sports box scores. Dad and I read Automotive News. We came here together, him teaching me about cars that were built way before my time. The Rambler automobile that he championed right there was the first American car designed and marketed exclusively for the purpose of economy and mileage. He dubbed it a compact car, and a car that would slay the gas-guzzling dinosaurs. And it transformed the industry. This place isn't just about automobiles, as you can see; it's about innovation, innovations that transformed an industry, and gave America a way of life our grandparents would have never dreamed possible. The DC 3 above us there was the first true commercial airliner. It transformed aviation from a luxury to a standard mode of transportation. I think if you look carefully enough, you'll see the first lost luggage. Next to us is the Ford hybrid over here. It is the first giant step away from our reliance on the gasoline engine. It's already changing the world of transportation. Just down the hall is Rosa Parks' bus. Her courage transformed hearts. Outside, is Thomas Edison's library. There, the electricity that Benjamin Franklin had discovered was transformed from a novelty into a necessity. Innovation and transformation have been at the heart of America's success from the very beginning. And if there ever was a time when innovation and transformation were needed in government, it is now. We've lost faith in government, and not in just one party, and not in just one house, but in government. We are weary of the bickering and the bombast, we're fatigued by the posturing and self-promotion. For even as America faces a new generation of challenges, the halls of government are clogged with petty politics and stuffed with peddlers of influence. It's time for innovation and transformation in Washington. It's what our country needs. It's what our people deserve. I don't believe Washington can be transformed from within by lifetime politicians. There have been too many deals, too many favors, too many entanglements...and too little real world experience managing, guiding and leading. I don't believe Washington can be transformed by someone who has never tried doing such a thing before, in any setting, by someone who has never even run a corner store, let alone the largest enterprise in the world. Throughout my life, I have pursued innovation and transformation. It has taught me the vital lessons that come only from experience, from failures and from successes, from public, private and voluntary sectors, from small and large enterprises, from leading a state, from actually being in the arena, not just talking about it. Talk is easy, talk is cheap. It's the doing that's hard. And it's only in the doing that hopes and dreams can come to life." This Christmas, Ann and I gathered our five sons, our five daughters-in-law and grandkids together and we asked the kids whether I should run for President. We talked about the special time this is in the history of our country. We talked about the qualities that are needed in America's leaders. And they were unanimous. They know Ann and mine's hearts. They know our values. They know my experience innovating and transforming, in business, in the Olympics, and in Massachusetts. And they know we love this country. And so, with them next to us, with the fine people of Michigan in front of me, and with my sweetheart at my side, I declare my intention to run for President of the United States. It's been said, thank you. It's been said that a person is defined by what he loves and by what he believes and by what he dreams. I love America and I believe in the people of America. I believe in God and I believe that every person in this great country, and every person on this great planet, is a child of God. I believe that we are all sisters and brothers. I believe that the family is the foundation of America - and that it needs to be protected and strengthened. I believe in the sanctity of human life. I believe that people and their elected representatives should make the laws, not unelected judges. I believe that we are overtaxed and government is overfed. Washington is spending too much money. I believe that homeland security begins with securing our borders. I believe that our best days are before us, because... I believe in America!" At this critical time, we must first transform the role we play in the world, secondly strengthen our nation, and third build a brighter future for the American family. Today, as we stare at the face of radical violent Jihad and at the prospect of nuclear epidemic, our military might should not be subject to the whims of ever-changing political agendas. The best ally of peace in the world is a strong America! I believe that our role in the world must be defined not only in terms of our might, but also by our willingness to lead, to serve, and to share. We must campaign for freedom and democracy in our own hemisphere, now threatened by a second aspiring tyrant. We must extend our hand to Africa's poor and diseased and brutalized. We must lead the world's civilized nations in a partnership that will support moderate Muslim nations and peoples, to help them embrace principles of modernity and defeat violent Jihad. We must link arms with all responsible nations to block Iran from realizing its nuclear ambition. America must never engage and negotiate with Jihadists who want to destroy us, destroy our friends, and destroy our way of life! Across the nation, there is debate about what course we should take in Iran. We want our troops home, and we want our troops home as soon as they possibly can be here. Our desire to bring our troops home however, safely and soon, is met with our recognition that if Iraq descends into all-out civil war, millions could die; Iraq's Sunni region could become a base for Al Qaeda; its Shia region could be seized by Iran; Kurd tension could destabilize Turkey; and even the broader Middle East could be engulfed in conflict. The possible implications for America could be devastating. It could mean a future with far more military involvement and far more loss of American life. For these reasons, I believe that so long as there is a reasonable prospect of success, our wisest course is to seek stability in Iraq, with additional troops to secure the civilian population. And no matter how Iraq is resolved, we must honor and care for the veterans who risked their lives, and for the families whose loved ones made the ultimate sacrifice. Our nation has a sacred pact with those who defend freedom. It is a pact we must never break! America must also regain our standing in the world. Our influence must once again match our generosity. Over the 20th century, no nation gave more, shed more precious lives, and took less for itself than America. Our sacrifice for freedom and human dignity continues unabated today. But this is not the way it is seen by others. America's goodness and leadership in the world, must be as bright and bold as our military might! Let me turn to the home-front, America can also overcome the challenges and seize our abundant opportunities here at home, but only if we follow the right course. There are some who believe that America's strength comes from government - that challenges call for bigger government, for more regulation in our lives and our livelihoods, and for more protection and isolation from competition that comes from open markets. That is the path that has been taken by much of Europe. It is called the welfare state. It has led to high unemployment and anemic job growth. It is not the path to prosperity and leadership. I believe the American people are the source of our strength. They always have been. They always will be. The American people: hard working, educated, willing to sacrifice for family and country, patriotic, willing to put opportunity ahead of dependence. Free American people are the source of America's strength. And when America needs to call on the strength of our country, we call on the strength of the American people, we do not strengthen government. We strengthen the American people by giving people in our country more freedom, by letting them keep more of what they earn, by making sure our schools are providing the skills our children will need for tomorrow, and by keeping America at the leading edge of innovation and technology. Look, America faces unprecedented challenges. We are under attack from jihadists, we face new competition from Asia unlike anything we have known before. We are spending too much money here, our schools are failing too many of our kids, forty-five million people don't have health insurance, we are using too much oil. And what does Washington do, it talks and debates and talks and kicks the ball down the field. It is time for less talk and more action in government. Our government has become a weight on the American people, sapping their strength and slowing their climb. We must transform our government - to become a government that is smaller and less bureaucratic, one with fewer regulations and more freedom for our people. The innovation we need today is to make government more responsive to the needs of everyday American citizens. It's time to put government in its place, and to put the American people first! At the core of America, at the heart of America are millions of individual families: families of children and parents, aunts and uncles and cousins, grandparents, foster parents. The work done in the home is the most important work that can possibly be done for the future of this great country. Their work in the home, these parents, grandparents, foster parents isn't getting easier. Values and morals that have long shaped the development of our children are under constant attack. In too many cases, schools are failing. For some, healthcare is inadequate. Family expenses and government take a larger and larger bite. America cannot continue to lead the family of nations if we fail the families here at home. How is the American family made stronger? With marriage before children. With a mother and a father in the life of every child. With healthcare that is affordable and portable. With schools that succeed. With taxes that are lower. And with leaders who strive to demonstrate enduring values and morality. This was the agenda I pursued as Governor of Massachusetts. This is the agenda I will pursue if I am elected your President. When I was a boy, the American dream meant a house in the suburbs. The American dream today must mean more than a house. The new American dream should include a strong family, enduring values, excellence in education, dependable and affordable healthcare, secure employment and secure retirement, and a safe and prosperous homeland. It's time to build a new American dream for all Americans. How will this new American dream be built? Our hopes and dreams will inspire us, for Americans are an optimistic people. But hope alone is just crossing fingers, when what we need is industrious hands. It is time for hope and action. It is time to do, as well as to dream! As we look around us in this extraordinary museum, we see the evidence of American innovation - airplanes, automobiles, appliances. But these are not America's greatest innovation. America's greatest innovation is freedom. Without freedom, we have nothing. With freedom, nothing can hold us back. With freedom, nothing can hold us back.  "Freedom has made the American dream possible. Freedom will make the new American dream possible. And with the work, sacrifice, and greatness of spirit of the American people, freedom has made America - and will keep America - the greatest nation on earth. God bless The United States of America."
The mainstream media is surprised that we're here. They wrote our obituary last fall. Course, they've written our obituary before: after Watergate, after the 82 midterm elections, after Iran-contra, and after Bill Clinton's election. The truth is that their wishful thinking reports of our demise have been greatly exaggerated. In fact, I predict that we'll be around a lot longer than . . . say, newspapers. No conservatism is alive and well. And it is needed more than ever. America faces a new generation of challenges, critical challenges. Today is similar in many respects to what we faced as a nation 30 years ago, looking at the menacing face of communism. "In fact, 30 years ago, in this very conference, one man stood up and told America what was needed. It was conservatism, a new coalition of conservatives that would lead to a brighter future for the nation. Ronald Reagan said this: 'What I envision is not simply a melding together of the two branches of American conservatism into a temporary uneasy alliance, but the creation of a new, lasting majority.' And here is where he said that this conservative alliance would lead: 'I have seen the conservative future, and it works.' Coming from Massachusetts, I saw first hand the liberal future, and it doesn't work. That's why I ran against Ted Kennedy. Liberal social programs weren't solving poverty; they were in fact creating a culture of poverty. I didn't win, but at least Teddy had to take out a mortgage on his home to beat me. I was once campaigning in a poor section in Boston when a person came up to me and said: 'What are you doing here? This is Kennedy country.' I looked around at the vacant store fronts and boarded up windows and replied: 'Yeah, it looks like Kennedy country.' No, it is the conservative coalition represented here that can build a brighter future for America: economic conservatives, social conservatives, and national security conservatives. I saw the potential of economic conservatism when I became governor. The state budget was $3 billion short. Liberals wanted to raise taxes, but I cut government instead. I eliminated and combined duplicative and wasteful agencies and programs, and I balanced the budget four years in a row. One commentator said that I didn't just go after the sacred cows, I went after the whole herd. And after four years as governor, I'm proud to report that Massachusetts has 600 fewer state workers than when I took office. I went after taxes as well. The Legislature passed a $250 million retroactive capital gains tax increase. I knew my veto would be overridden by the 85% Democrat majority. So I had the Department of Revenue send every taxpayer a pro forma bill for their new higher taxes, and then I waited for folks to call their legislators. And did they ever. Then, I sent the Legislature an amendment that turned the $250 million tax increase into a $250 million refund. Amazingly, the Legislature now saw the error of their ways. I didn't stop there. We made the investment tax credit permanent. We passed sales tax holidays. We gave tax breaks to medical manufacturing companies. We gave real estate tax breaks to seniors. And in each of my last three years, I submitted a budget that cut the income tax. It's time for some economic conservatism in Washington as well. We've seen an embarrassing spike in non-defense, discretionary spending. As you know, I'm proud to be the first Presidential candidate to sign Grover Norquist's tax pledge. But I have another pledge I am making to you today. If I am elected President, I will cap non-defense discretionary spending at inflation minus one percent. That alone will save $300 billion over 10 years. If Congress sends me a budget that exceeds the cap, I will veto that budget. I don't care if it's a Republican or Democrat Congress, I will veto that budget. And I know how to veto. I like vetoes. I vetoed hundreds of spending appropriations as Governor. And, by the way, if Congress doesn't want to do the cutting itself, then give me the same line item veto I had as governor. And one more thing, I will personally lead a top to bottom review of government programs, agencies, procurement and spending. It's time to cut out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication in the federal government. I've done that in business, I've done that in the Olympics, and I've done that in Massachusetts. And boy, I can't wait to get my hands on Washington. Democrats in Washington are itching to raise taxes - 2011 is set to be a record breaking tax hike. Not if I'm President. I'll fight to stop the tax hike. And I'll fight for a new savings plan for middle class Americans as well - one that will grow the economy and help families at the same time. Under my plan, the amount of tax they will pay on dividends, interest and capital gains will be absolutely zero. It's high time to take government apart and put it back together, but this time simpler, smarter and smaller. Let's talk about social conservatism too. Massachusetts became center stage for the liberal social agenda - sort of San Francisco east, Nancy Pelosi style. Ten months into my term, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court said our Constitution requires gay marriage. John Adams, who wrote it, would be surprised. Less than a year later, scientists were trying to convince me that it's not a moral issue to clone entirely new human embryos solely for research. Not long after that, the Catholic Church was forced to exit their adoption service because they preferred placing kids in homes with a mom and a dad, not two dads or two moms. I have stood in the center of the battlefield on every major social issue. I fought to preserve our traditional values and to protect the sanctity of life. I vetoed bills, and filed new bills. I enforced a law that banned out-of-state same sex couples from coming to Massachusetts to get married. I went to the court again and again, I testified before Congress for the federal marriage amendment, and I championed our successful drive that collected 170,000 signatures for a citizen ballot initiative to protect marriage. To me, a fundamental principle of democracy is at stake. It is the people who are sovereign in America, not a few folks in black robes. Judges add things that aren't in the Constitution, and they take away things that are in the Constitution. In that regard, they let the campaign finance lobby take away First Amendment rights. If I'm President, I will fight to repeal McCain-Feingold. Another aspect of American sovereignty is the security of our borders. The current system is a virtual concrete wall against those who have skill and education, but it's a wide open walk across the border for those that have neither. McCain-Kennedy isn't the answer. As governor, I took a very different approach. I authorized our state police to enforce immigration laws. I vetoed a tuition break for illegals and said no to driver's licenses. McCain-Kennedy gives benefits to illegals that would cost taxpayers millions. And more importantly, amnesty didn't work 20 years ago, and it won't work today. The new generation of challenges we face today includes challenges to our national security as well. Violent Jihadists are intent on replacing moderate Islamic governments with a Caliphate. To do that, they seek the collapse of our economy and our military. We will defeat the violent jihad with a two-part strategy. First, an unquestionably strong military. The best ally peace has in the world is a strong America. We need more men and women in the military, better armaments, and a Strategic Defense Initiative. And there's a second aspect of our strategy: we must bring together all the civilized nations of the world in what might be called a Second Marshall Plan. Together with them, and with volunteers, businesses and NGOs, we must support moderate Muslim nations and peoples. They need public schools that are not Wahabi schools, the rule of law, property rights, modern banking and agriculture and pro-growth economic policies. In the end, it is the Muslim people themselves who will eliminate radical jihad. Iraq is just one front in the war. We removed Hussein, but afterward, we were under-prepared, under-planned, under-manned, and under-managed. But walking away now or dividing the country and then walking away would have real and severe risks for America and for our troops. I support the troop surge for that reason. And one thing I know, we shouldn't let Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid dictate our battle strategy to the commanders in the field or to the Commander-in-Chief. Conservatism is a belief in strength. It is because of America's strength that we don't all speak German and that our kids don't all speak Russian. And it is because of America's strength that our grandchildren will not have to speak Farsi or Arabic or Chinese. America must remain the world's military superpower. That is a first principle of conservatism. To remain the military superpower, we must remain the world's economic superpower as well. You can't be a Tier I military with a Tier II economy - the Soviet Union tried to keep that up for a while, and lost. It's inconceivable to us that we could ever be passed economically. But 100 years ago, it was inconceivable that anyone could have passed England or France. But we did. And if you look East, you can see that we are facing much more difficult competition from Asia than we have faced before. They want to move the center of manufacturing and technology and innovation from America to Asia. We may just smile, but don't forget what Will Rogers said: "'Even if you're on the right track, if you don't move, you'll get run over.' America will move, but the question is, 'In what direction?' History can be a guide. The 20th Century saw two economic systems pitted against each other. Ours was built on free enterprise, free trade and the primacy of the individual. The Soviet's was built on government command and control, and the primacy of the state. Ours produced the most powerful economy in the world that has given its citizens a standard of living our grandparents never dreamed possible; theirs produced a downward spiraling standard of living and eventual collapse. The 20th Century history lesson is that America's economy is strong because we put our trust in freedom, in the American people, and in the free enterprises they create. If we are to keep America strong, we must turn to the source of America's strength. Liberals think that government is the source of our greatness. They're wrong. The American people are the source of our strength: hard working, educated, skilled, family-oriented, willing to sacrifice for their family and their country, God-fearing, freedom-loving American people. They always have been the source of our strength and they always will be. And so if we need to call on the strength of America, you don't strengthen government, you strengthen the American people. You strengthen the American people by letting them keep more of their own money, and not taxing their families at death. You strengthen the American people by making sure that the voice of millions of voters trumps the voice of unelected judges. You strengthen the American people by securing our borders and by insisting that the children who come legally to this land are taught in English. And perhaps most importantly, you strengthen the American people when you strengthen the American family. Marriage must come before children because every child deserves a mother and a father. This is not the time for us to shrink from conservative principles. It is time for us to stand in strength. Because America faces unprecedented challenges, strength is the only answer. Strong military, strong economy, strong families. Thirty years ago, in challenging times, a great coalition was forged in these halls. Today, we face a new generation of challenges. If we in this room lock our arms together, we can forge the political will to rebuild our military might. If we in this room will simply march forward we can propel America's growth and prosperity to lead to the world. If we in this room lift up our eyes, we will lift the spirit of the nation. Now is the time, this is the place, for us to stand together, to lead a great coalition of strength, For our families, for our future, for America. May God bless this great land."
It is good to be back in Miami. If ever there was a place which shows the vitality and dynamism of the American spirit, this is it. One friend told me that he considers Miami to be the capital of Latin America and it looks like a capital  bold architecture, bold people ... a truly gleaming city. Miami and Florida owe a great deal to Jeb Bush. Thirty years ago, Miami was a different city. And so was America. America faced the menace of global communism, stagnation, and high inflation. Jimmy Carter told us that our problems were the fault of the American people. But one man stood up and said that Carter was wrong; that the fault was in America's politicians. The answer, he said, was in conservatism  strong military, strong economy and strong families. Ronald Reagan said this: 'I have seen the future of conservatism, and it works.' Today, we face a new generation of challenges. I believe they are every bit as threatening as was the threat of the Cold War. And the principles of conservatism are once again the answer for America. As Governor, I saw the power of fiscal conservatism. The state budget was $3 billion short. Liberals wanted to raise taxes, but I cut government instead. I eliminated and combined duplicate agencies and wasteful programs, and I balanced the budget four years in a row. One commentator said that I didn't just go after the sacred cows, I went after the whole herd. And after four years as governor, I'm proud to report that Massachusetts has fewer state workers than when I took office. Spending isn't the only target of Republican conservatism. I went after taxes as well. We killed a $250 million capital gains tax increase. We made the investment tax credit permanent. We passed sales tax holidays. We gave real estate tax breaks to seniors. You guys are lucky. You don't have an income tax. That's why in each of my last three years, I submitted a budget that cut the income tax. It's time to bring that same kind of Republican economic conservatism to Washington, DC as well. We've seen an embarrassing spike in federal spending, even as Republicans held the majority in both houses. As you know, I'm proud to be the first Presidential candidate to sign a pledge not to raise taxes. But I have another pledge. If I am elected President, I will cap non-defense discretionary spending at inflation minus one percent. That alone will save $300 billion over 10 years. If Congress sends me a budget that exceeds the cap, I will veto that budget. I don't care if it's a Republican or Democrat Congress, I will veto that budget. And one more thing, I will personally lead a top to bottom review of government programs, agencies, procurement and spending. It's time to cut out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication in the federal government. I've done that in business, I've done that in the Olympics, and I've done that in Massachusetts. And boy, I can't wait to get my hands on Washington. Democrats in Washington are itching to raise your taxes  2011 is set to be a record breaking tax hike. Not if I'm President. I'll fight to stop the tax hike. And I'll fight for a new savings plan for middle class Americans as well  one that will grow the economy and help families at the same time. Under my plan, middle-class Americans will be able to earn thousands of dollars in dividends, interest and capital gains entirely tax-free. It's high time to take government apart and put it back together, but this time we will make it simpler, smarter and smaller. The simple truth is this: Washington is the problem. Big government, big spending Washington saps the vitality and growth of the American people and of American enterprise. It is time once again to bring Republican principles to Washington. It's time to take government apart and put it back together again  only this time, smaller, simpler and smarter. As Governor, I also fought to preserve our traditional values. Massachusetts became center stage for the liberal social agenda Ten months into my term, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court said our Constitution requires gay marriage. Less than a year later, scientists were trying to convince me that it's not a moral issue to clone entirely new human embryos solely for research. Not long after that, the Catholic Church was forced to end their adoption service because they preferred placing kids in homes with a mom and a dad, not two dads or two moms. I have stood in the center of the battlefield on every major social issue. I fought to preserve our traditional values and to protect the sanctity of life. I have been asked why we have fought so hard, for family, for marriage, for life, for religious freedom. The answer is that I believe that the culture and values of the American people are the source of our strength as a nation. Some liberals believe that America is a great nation because we have a great government. Well, we have a great government, but that is not the source of our strength. The source of our strength is the American people  hard working, educated, risk taking, opportunity loving, God-fearing, family oriented, free American people. And when we need to call on America's strength, you don't strengthen the government, you strengthen the American people. You strengthen the American people by making sure their children have good schools and good healthcare. You strengthen the American people by opening the doors to opportunity. And you strengthen the American people by strengthening the American family. There is no work more important to the future of America than the work done within the four walls of the home. Today, far too many of our children are born to a home that has only one parent. My friends, I think we can all agree: every child should have a mother and a father. Republicans believe in strength. And American strength starts in the home. Republican principles are also needed in national security. Tonight, I'd like to consider two critical regions where the strength and resolve of our foreign policy is being tested: first, in the Middle East. And second, in Latin America. In the Middle East and through much of the world, violent Jihadists are intent on replacing moderate Islamic governments with a Caliphate. To do that, they seek the collapse of our economy and our military. We will defeat the violent jihad with a two-part strategy. First, an unquestionably strong military. The best ally peace has in the world is a strong America. We need more men and women in the military, better armaments, and a Strategic Defense Initiative. And there's a second aspect of our strategy: we must bring together all the civilized nations of the world in what might be called a Second Marshall Plan. Together with them, and with volunteers, businesses and NGOs, we must support moderate Muslim nations and peoples. They need public schools that are not Wahhabi schools, the rule of law, property rights, modern banking and agriculture and pro-growth economic policies. In the end, it is the Muslim people themselves who will eliminate radical jihad. Iraq is just one front in the war. We removed Hussein, but afterward, we were under-prepared, under-planned, under-manned, and under-managed. But walking away now or dividing the country and then walking away would have real and severe risks for America and for our troops. I support the President's troop surge for that reason. And one thing I know, we shouldn't let Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid dictate our battle strategy to the commanders in the field or to the Commander-in-Chief. I would like now to turn to another region, to another challenge to America. I want to talk about Latin America and about the unprecedented challenge and opportunity that confront us. I owe a great deal to Americans of Latin American descent. When I was starting my business, I came to Miami to find partners that would believe in me, and that would finance my enterprise. My partners were Ricardo Poma, Miguel Duenas, Pancho Soler, Frank Kardonski, and Diego Ribandinarea. These friends didn't just help me, they taught me. Ricardo's brother had been tortured and murdered by rebel terrorists in El Salvador. Miguel himself had been chained to a floor in Guatemala for weeks, and tortured. And their torturers were financed by Fidel Castro. I learned from these friends about the human cost when Castro has money. So many of you here, in profound and personal ways, know all too well the precious value of liberty  and the agonizing pain of tyranny. You have seen it your families, your friends, your neighbors, and in your own lives. In two years, we will mark the 200th anniversary of Lincoln's birth. We will also note a far more sobering occasion  the half century that will have passed since darkness descended 90 miles to our south, and a despotic reign fell over a proud people. Unless something happens to hasten the demise of a corrupt dictatorship, 50 years will have passed since Fidel and Raul Castro seized Havana, confiscated property, and tore apart families and lives. The year 2009 will also mark nearly three decades since Castro set tens of thousands of his countrymen adrift on the open seas, confirming in every rational mind the moral depravity of his tyranny. Through the Internet, TV, Radio Marti and other Miami radio stations that broadcast into Cuba, we know that word of news and events here in the U.S. gets back to Cuba. To this daily flow of truth I would like to add my message to your own. America will never back down to the Castro brothers. There will be no accommodation, no appeasement. There will be no end to our insistence that political prisoners are set free, and that Cubans themselves are finally given the privileges that today are enjoyed only by Castro's cronies, and by foreign tourists. After 50 years, with so much suffering, so much sacrifice, we will not relent until the day when the Castro brothers meet their ignominious end and their history is written among the world's most reviled despots, tyrants and frauds. As President, I will stand side-by-side with the members of this community in fighting the menace of the Cuban monsters. I will work with Mel Martinez  who at age the age of 15 came to Orlando from his native Sagua la Grande as part of 'Operation Pedro Pan.' Mel lived with foster families who generously opened their homes to him until he was reunited with his family a few years later  and the rest, as they say, is history. I will stand side by side with your Congressional leaders  Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. And I will work with leading exiles like Armando Perez-Roura, whose life and whose continued commitment to Cuban freedom is nothing short of inspiring. Also, let me say, I know that many of you tonight are mourning the passing of Agustin Tamargo, a local legend in Spanish radio. I offer my deepest condolences to his wife, their seven children and the entire community on the loss of a friend and leader. I said at the outset that the threat in Latin America is unprecedented. I say that because the Castros have a second tyrant and he has great wealth, from oil. We must stand just as firm against caudillos like Hugo Chavez, tutored by Fidel Castro. Chavez and Castro are brothers in blood, intent on personal gratification at the expense of their people. Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro have stolen the phrase  'Patria o muerte, venceremos.' This phrase should not be used by dictators, but by liberators. There are two spheres of influence in the Western Hemisphere. One is dark, bellicose and spreads misery by denying people basic freedoms; the other shines like a powerful light, is peaceful and wants only for its people to live in liberty and prosper. It is time for the United States to adopt a Latin American strategy that will strengthen human rights and freedom, that will advance our own interests, and that will weaken the threat of the Castros and Chavez. I propose seven elements in this strategy. First, we must continue to isolate Castro with economic and diplomatic sanctions. Second, we must help our friends. Foreign aid and foreign investments must be focused on those who stand alongside us. Third, we must once again act to inform public opinion in Latin America. We should use our world renowned media and communications savvy to spread the truth about American freedom, and Castro tyranny. Fourth, we must improve our economic ties. The President has negotiated vital free trade agreements with Latin American neighbors like Peru, Columbia and Panama, but some Democrats in Congress are so beholden to their labor bosses that they have refused to confirm them. It is time to put the interests of humanity and of the nation first. Fifth, we must rebuild relationships of respect and trust and friendship. Our Latin American friends must always feel welcome in the White House. And congratulations are in order to the President for his travels this week to Latin America. Sixth, as we finally and belatedly secure the border and solve the problem of illegal immigration, we must reaffirm our appreciation of legal immigration. We are a nation of immigrants and refugees, and they have contributed a great deal to our culture of hard work, entrepreneurship, faith in God, love of family, and respect for human life. And finally, we must never again ignore Latin America. It is a great deal easier to prevent a crisis than to end one. Since the end of the Cold War and since the terror of 9/11, America has become so preoccupied with other regions that we have forgotten our friends in our own hemisphere. And we have ignored the potential threat. Consider with concern the visit here from Ahmadinejad, the aspiring nuclear terrorist and genocidist. As we face these challenges, there is one more principle we must remember. America must remain the world's military superpower. It is the strength of our military, the strength of our families, the strength of the American people, the strength of the many Americans who trace their roots to the soil of Cuba and Latin America, it is all this strength that gives me such confidence that someday, soon, the people of Cuba will be free. I look forward to the day when the stain of Castro is rinsed from the Cuban soil, when the Cuban people can stand with their American brothers and sisters and say these words - Libertad, Libertad, Libertad."
Thank you for that welcome, and thank you President and Mrs. Bush for this invitation to speak at Texas A&M, a proud university with time honored traditions. I've only been here for a few hours, but spending that time with students here, I understand why you chose this place for your library. You are all lucky to have a national treasure here in this library. I'm not talking about the memorabilia and records  I'm talking about President and Mrs. Bush. Once they led a nation - today they inspire a nation. The Navy's youngest pilot became the nation's Commander-in-Chief. And now, he comforts the wounded from Hurricanes and Tsunami. His 16 year old dance partner became the mother of 6 - including a President and a Governor - the nation's first lady, and the love of their 62 married years. Inspired by them both, their grandson, George P. Bush, has joined the Navy Reserve. Their accomplishments changed global politics. Their character changed our hearts. Let me also add a word of thanks to the Texas A&M community for allowing the Federal government to "borrow" Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Mr. President, I am told that you have objected to calling your generation the greatest generation. You prefer to add others to the list, including the brave men and women who fought to protect us in Desert Storm, and those who are in harms way today. I wholly agree with your characterization of our armed forces as the bravest and most patriotic in the world. But I still line up with Tom Brokaw on this. Not due to any deficiency in bravery. But because of what your entire generation of American's sacrificed, and because of what you accomplished. Frankly, what your generation achieved, for America, and for the world, was so astounding that historians may have a difficult time convincing future students that they are not grossly exaggerating. Mid century, a menacing madman had captured the wealth and land of all continental Europe. His rantings of genocide had been dismissed as hyperbole, but they were appallingly real. Allied with Japan, Hitler was poised to conquer one last European island and her most famous former colony - us. You stopped them both - your blood washing the beaches of the Atlantic and the Pacific. And then, another threat, just as horrific. The Soviet Empire hung an Iron Curtain, and spread its leaden weight around the world. The peril of nuclear holocaust was reminiscent of the holocaust that the world had just seen in Europe. This time, the holocaust threatened the entire human race. And again, your generation won. And the victor was truly an entire generation, not just those, like yourself, who served in the armed forces. In the 40's, you rationed and saved. Your mothers and daughters enlisted to work in factories, just as you did Mrs. Bush. And in the 60's and 70's and 80's, you relentlessly pursued learning and innovation to lead the world in space, in technology, in productivity - you out-competed the Soviets. You drove them to the economic bankruptcy that matched their moral bankruptcy. Today, we face a new generation of challenges, globally and here at home. We will do as American have always done: we will rise to the occasion. We have all that we need. We have technology, technology that would have been beyond the imagination of our grandparents. We have national wealth. And most important, we have the heart and passion of the American people - always the greatest source of our strength as a nation. We need leadership. We are fortunate today to have a President who loves America, who acts solely out of a desire to protect her and to promote liberty around the world. We have a President who leads. But I think most Americans look at Washington and are appalled at the divisiveness, the bitterness, the smallness, the disunity. Senator Arthur Vandenberg once famously opined that "politics stops at the water's edge." But last week, the Democratic chair of House Foreign Affairs said that we have two foreign policies, one for each party. And then the Speaker of the House helped dignify a state sponsor of terror. At this time of war, her action stands as one of the most partisan, divisive, and ill-considered of any national leader in this decade. United we stand. United we have stood the test of time and tyrants. Divided is not the American way. Today, the attention of the nation is focused on Iraq. All Americans want our troops home as soon as possible. But walking away from Iraq, or dividing it in parts and then walking away would present grave risks to America. Iran could seize the Shia south, Al Qaeda could dominate the Sunni west, and the Kurds could destabilize the border with Turkey. A regional conflict could ensue, perhaps even requiring our return into far worse circumstances. The troop surge has a real chance of working, and early signs are encouraging. It is time for Congress to follow the lead of the commanders in the field and the Commander-in-Chief. What do you see beyond Iraq, into the coming decades? I see what America can be for our children, if we stand united, and if we finally act to honestly face the new generation of challenges that confront us. It is an America that is safe and that is prosperous, even more prosperous than today. It is an America that is respected and appreciated by the nations of the world, because they too will have been blessed with the gifts we enjoy - freedom, security, and prosperity. I am often asked whether I am a neo-conservative or a realist. Sorry, those terms are too confining. In my view, our objective is a strong America and a safe world. We should always remember that those two things are connected. As Ronald Reagan observed: "Of the four wars in my lifetime, none came about because the U.S. was too strong." A strong America requires a strong military and a strong economy. You can't be a military superpower if you are a second tier economy. The weakness of the Soviet economy was the vulnerability that Presidents Reagan and Bush exploited to bring down the Evil Empire. I have previously addressed action we must urgently take to preserve our economic lead - smaller government, lower taxes, better schools and healthcare, greater investment in technology, free trade. But there is further action we must take if we are to remain strong and if we are to build a safe world, with peace, prosperity, freedom and dignity. This action will be controversial. It will be strongly resisted. Because this action requires change. Change in and of itself is difficult. And in the absence of a clear and convincing crisis, it is even harder to garner the will necessary to set a new course. Look at how long it took us to confront the reality of Jihadism. They bombed our embassies, they bombed our Marines in Lebanon, they bombed the USS Cole, they even set off a bomb in the basement of the World Trade Center. But we failed to truly see the threat, and to change. After September 11, 2001, our President led us from denial to action. I think many of us still fail to comprehend the extent of the threat posed by radical Islam, by Jihad. Understandably, we focus on Afghanistan and Iraq. Our men and women are dying there. We think in terms of countries, because we faced countries in last century's conflicts. But the Jihad is much broader than any one nation or nations. Jihad encompasses far more than the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. For radical Islam, there is an over-arching conflict and goal - replacing all modern Islamic states with a caliphate, destroying America, and conquering the world. It sounds insane. It is insane. It is just as insane as Hitler and Stalin. But it is also just as real. Their methods are entirely different than those of the World Wars and the Cold War. Rather than armies, they employ sleeper networks and indiscriminate terror. Their soldiers include children, as do their victims; among their generals are radical clergy. They communicate by Internet. They recruit in schools and in houses of worship and in prisons. And now, they pursue nuclear weapons - they even contemplate using them. What we face is different, different than what we have faced before. And that means we will have to change if we are to defeat it. And the change will require sacrifice from the American people. I believe America is ready for the challenge. Today, I'd like to discuss four changes among those I believe are needed.  First, we need a stronger military.   I propose that we sharply increase our investment in national defense. I want to see at least 100,000 more troops. I want to see us finally make the long overdue investment in equipment, armament, weapon systems, and strategic defense. After President Bush left office in 1993, the Clinton administration began to dismantle our military, in what some called a peace dividend. They took the dividend, but didn't get the peace. It seems that we had come to believe that war and threats and evil men were gone forever. As Charles Krauthammer observed: we took a holiday from history. Simply look at the neglect of our military We purchased only a small fraction of what was needed to maintain our strength. Instead, we have lived off the assets that had been purchased in the prior decades. The equipment and armament gap continues to this day. We wring the useful life out of old and inadequate equipment, starving our budget for purchasing modern and ample armament. What is the right amount to spend? Secretary Gates has proposed a 10% increase for next year. Bravo. But we will need at least an additional $30 to 40 billion per year over the next several years to modernize our military, address gaps in our troop levels, ease the strain on our National Guard and Reserves and support our wounded soldiers. A look at our military spending over time is instructive. Based on my analysis, we should commit to spend a minimum of 4% of GDP on our national defense. But increase spending must not mean increased waste. If I am fortunate enough to become President, I will convene a team of private sector leaders and defense experts to carry out a stem-to-stern analysis of military purchasing. First, I want to hear about spending on equipment and programs that is more about making a politician's home district happy, than about protecting our nation. That's worse than pork-barrel spending, and it's got to stop. I will work with Congress to install strict lobbying rules and new sunshine provisions to keep a far more watchful eye on self-serving politicians, current and past. And second, I want my team to see if and where we are being fleeced by contractors and suppliers. There will be no sheep allowed in the military purchasing department! So number one: a stronger military.  Number two: America must become energy independent.   Our economic and military strength require it. I'm not just talking about symbolic measures, I mean that we must finally take the necessary steps to actually produce as much energy as we use. This may take twenty years or more. Of course, we will continue buying fuels from our friends, but we will buy AND sell. We will end our strategic vulnerability to an oil shut-off by nations like Iran, Russia, and Venezuela. We will stop sending $1 billion a day to other nations, some of whom are using that same money against us. And we will rein in our emissions of greenhouse gasses at the same time. True energy independence will require employing technology to make our use of energy more efficient, in our cars, in our homes, and in our businesses. Energy independence will also mean pursuing our ample domestic sources of energy: more drilling offshore and in ANWR, nuclear power, renewable sources like ethanol, biodiesel, solar, wind, and full exploitation of coal - solid and liquid. In some cases, we may need to guarantee floor prices to stimulate private investment. In others, shared investments or incentives may be required. I will initiate a bold and far-reaching research initiative - an Energy Revolution. It will be our generation's equivalent of the Manhattan Project or of the mission to reach the Moon. This will be a mission to create new, economic sources of energy, clean energy. We will license our technology to other nations and we will employ it here at home. It will be good for our national defense, for our foreign policy and for our economy. It will also be good for the world. And while scientists are still debating how much human activity impacts the environment, we can all agree that alternative energy sources will be good for the planet. For any and all of these reasons, the time for true energy independence has come.  Three: we must transform our international civilian resources, to enhance our influence for peace, for security, and for freedom.   Following World War II, America created structures designed to meet the demands of the Cold War. It worked. During the Reagan-Bush years, it became clear that the bureaucratic boundaries in the military between the branches were getting in the way. So the Goldwater-Nichols Act removed barriers to unify efforts across the services. This included establishing "joint commands" with individual commanders fully responsible for their geographic region. Those theaters of responsibility are as shown here. Our non-military resources enjoy no such jointness, no such clear leadership, no such clear lines of authority and responsibility. Too often we struggle to integrate our military and civilian instruments of national power into coherent, timely and effective operations. When facing the need to strengthen the democratic underpinnings of a country like Lebanon, our education, health, banking, energy, commerce, law enforcement and diplomatic resources are in separate bureaucracies, all under separate leadership, all protecting their own powers and their own prerogatives. So while we watched, Hezbollah brought healthcare and schools to the Lebanese. Guess who the people followed when conflict ensued? The same thing happened with Hamas and the Palestinians. The problem was just as evident in Iraq. While the military moved in rapid order to topple Saddam Hussein, many of our non-military resources moved like they were stuck in tar. They fight over which agency will pay the $11.00 per diem cost of food at the same time that we are spending over $7 billion a month and taking human casualties. It is high time to truly transform our civilian instruments of national power. We need to enable joint strategies and joint operations. Just as the military has divided the world into common regions for all of its branches, so too the civilian agencies should align along consistent boundaries. And one civilian leader, a Deputy lets call him or her, with authority and responsibility for all agencies and departments, must be fully empowered, just like the single military commander for CENTCOM. These Deputies of our civilian resources must have sufficient authority over the activities in their region. They will be heavy hitters, with recognized reputations around the world. They must be given objectives, budgets, and responsible oversight. They will be measured by their success in their region in improving such things as healthcare, education, and economy, and for their progress in promoting peace and democracy. The wonders of America - like our healthcare technology - can be powerful tools to promote the foundations of liberty. It is time that we apply these American wonders to make the world, and in turn to make America, a safer, freer, and more prosperous place.  Four. we need to strengthen old partnerships and alliances, and we need to inaugurate a new one.   I don't need to tell you that the failures of the UN are simply astonishing. Consider the infamous work of the UN Human Rights Council. The infamy of the UN has made a number of people understandably cynical when it comes to multinational and multilateral institutions. Some of us will be tempted to retreat to American isolation. Others will favor American unilateralism. But America's strength is amplified when it is combined with the strength of other nations. Whether diplomatic, military, or economic, America is stronger when we have friends standing with us. That may be even more true tomorrow than it is today. The world will look quite different in the future than it has in the past. The Middle East is facing a demographic crisis. Today, over half the region is under 22 years old. But the combined GDP of all Arab nations, including oil, is less than that of Spain. With the growing populations and lack of jobs, the ground for radical Islam will be increasingly fertile. I agree with former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain that we should build on the NATO alliance to defeat radical Jihad. He has called for greater coordination in military, homeland security, and non-proliferation efforts. He is right. We should look to expand and deepen this and other alliances. Today, I want to take his recommendation a step further. As one of my first acts as President, I would call for a Summit of Nations. In addition to the United States, the convening countries would include moderate Islamic states and other leading developed nations. The objective of the Summit would be to create a worldwide strategy to support Muslim nations and peoples, in their effort to defeat radical, violent Jihad. I would envision that the Summit would lead to the creation of a Partnership for Prosperity and Progress. This Partnership would assemble the resources of all developed nations to work to assure that threatened Islamic states had public schools, not Wahhabi madrassas, micro credit and banking, the rule of law, human rights, basic healthcare, and competitive economic policies. The resources would be drawn from public and private institutions, and from volunteers and NGOs. And policies would favor expansion of free trade and investment. Merely closing our eyes and hoping that radical Jihad will go away is not an acceptable answer. And American military action cannot change the hearts and minds of hundreds of millions of Muslims. Only Muslims will be able to defeat the violent radicals. But we can help them. And we must help them. For the consequences - for America and for all nations - of a radicalized Islamic world, possessing nuclear weapons, are unthinkable.  Conclusion  I know that the new generation of challenges that we face seems daunting. But confronting challenges has always made America stronger. And the heart of the American people is good. And it is willing. When called to rise to the occasion, the American people will be just as valiant as those of you in the Greatest Generation. The world awaits our leadership. On the wall of your library are these words: "Let future generations understand the burden and the blessings of freedom. Let them say we stood where duty required us to stand." We do understand. We stand in duty today. And we are ready stand again, for the future of America. Thank you.
Thanks ... It is an honor to receive this award and to be associated in a small way with the legacy of President Reagan who fought tirelessly to lift the nation. I'm sure he would be cheering the life affirming decision of the Supreme Court. The great issues of our times - the life and death issues - should be, as this court realizes, in the hands of the people and the democratic process. But our hearts are more heavy than buoyant tonight. They are heavy with the awful weight that rests on them  the weight of lost lives, lost senselessly, purposelessly, inexplicably. As our pace slows, we can look beyond the tumult of daily living into the wells of deeper meaning, and perhaps we can learn one of life's solemn sermons. Ann and I spent Monday at our home on a lake in New Hampshire. It was a grey day with record rainfall. The lake ice had still not entirely melted - but it was giving way to the waves and the rain. Inside, was toasty warm. Our entire family had gathered - all 22 of us. Parker Mitt is crawling; Owen just scoots. Eleven year old Allie reads better than a few of the adults. This new Romney generation has been planted in good homes. A call from the office told me about the tragedy in Virginia. I went outside to let the news penetrate. I could see my family through the windows. I tried to imagine the sorrow I would feel in losing one of them. But I couldn't do it. It was simply beyond my imagination. There is a great deal in life, it seems, that can only be understood if it is actually experienced. My heart mourns for the parents and families of the fallen, even though I know I cannot fully comprehend the depth of their loss. I pray for them. What are we to make of what happened at Virginia Tech? You may have already drawn your own lessons. Others will be added over days and weeks by both the thoughtful and the thoughtless. I hope that you will find what I have to offer tonight to be in the former category. I picked up my Bible yesterday to re-read the account of the senseless murder of Abel by his brother. It's only one page after the Fall of Adam and Eve from the garden, where they were told by God that He would place what he called "enmity" on the earth. There is a lesson being taught: evil and good have been here from the beginning. Cain murdered his younger brother Abel because he was jealous of him, angry that he was more favored. Evil is not going to simply go away. We are going to have to learn to live in a world that has evil as well as good. Perhaps that sounds obvious. I think it is. But when Hitler wrote of his genocidal plans, educated people simply couldn't believe that such evil was possible. The same is true of Ahmadinejad today - his evil is excused by those who cannot bring themselves to believe that evil like that actually exists in the heart of man. Following the end of the Cold War, President Clinton began to dismantle our military. He reduced our forces by 500,000. He retired almost 80 ships. Our spending on national defense dropped from over 6% of GDP to 3.8% today. He called it a "peace dividend." We got the dividend, but we didn't get the peace. Charles Krauthammer called our blissful disarmament a "holiday from history." For history has plainly taught that evil is on earth and that there are evil people who will threaten the good, the peaceful and the free. There is no question in my mind that if the opposition party had full reign in Washington, we would not only withdraw without regard to consequence from Iraq, we would also continue to reduce military spending to finance social programs. Some would celebrate, chanting that they are going to "give peace a chance." But peace has had many chances and it will have many more. History teaches us this: the best ally of peace is a strong America. As Ronald Reagan said: "Of the four wars in my lifetime, none came about because the U.S. was too strong." And it was also President Reagan who labeled the Soviet Union an evil empire - much to the horror of foreign policy elites. Yet he was right. Twenty years later, President Bush was criticized for labeling certain countries part of the "axis of evil." Again, foreign policy elites recoiled. But what these elites fail to recognize is that radical Islam has as its intention the overthrow of all moderate Islamic governments ... caliphate ... collapse of the West and the US. Today, Iran is working to develop a nuclear bomb ... Iran, whose President denies the history of Holocaust and calls for the destruction of the nation founded by its emaciated yet hopeful survivors. Evil indeed exists in the world. The right course for America in a world where evil still exists is not acquiescence and weakness, it is assertiveness and strength. I would like to see us add at least 100,000 troops to our military, increase defense spending to at least 4% of our GDP, and re-organize our non-military resources to support moderate, modern Muslim people and nations. Some of our citizens see the evil in the world, but argue that we should simply isolate ourselves from it. But one characteristic of evil is that it seeks domination over others, all others. Hitler was poised to conquer one last European island and Japan had attacked our Pacific fleet - there is no safe place if evil is unrestrained. The weak may hide, but they become weaker still, until at last they are discovered, and easily conquered. It is up to us to keep America strong. And while we will always defend America on our own if ever called, we know our strength is amplified when it is combined with the strength of other nations. Whether diplomatic, economic, or military, America is stronger when we have friends standing with us. I agree with former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain that we should build on the NATO alliance to defeat radical Islam. And further, if I were fortunate enough to be elected President, I would call for a Summit of Nations to create a new partnership - a Partnership for Hope and Prosperity. This Partnership would assemble the resources of all the nations of the developed world to work to assure that Islamic states that are threatened with violent jihad have public schools, not Wahhabi madrases, micro credit and banking, the rule of law, human rights, basic healthcare, and competitive economic policies. The resources would be drawn from public and private institutions, and from volunteers and NGOs. Together, we would be laying the groundwork of freedom and democracy. Merely closing our eyes and hoping that radical Jihad will go away is not an acceptable answer. And American military action alone cannot change the hearts and minds of hundreds of millions of Muslims. Only Muslims will be able to defeat radical jihad. But we can help them. And we must help them. For the consequences for America and for all nations of a radicalized Islamic world, possessing nuclear weapons, are unthinkable. It is another attribute of evil to call itself good and to label the good as evil. It is stupefying to most Americans that Bin Laden and Ahmadinejad and Chavez call us, America, evil. But millennia ago, Isaiah, a prophet of the Old Testament, said this: "Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!" And so, we should not be terribly surprised when we are so widely scorned by these purveyors of hate. But we are not entirely without fault. We can  and should  do a better job to promote freedom. When Lebanon's new leadership was facing the test of democracy, we watched as Hezbollah brought the Lebanese people schools and healthcare. Our resources could have helped but they are all housed in separate bureaucracies, intent on protecting their own powers and budgets and prerogatives. So guess who the people followed when conflict broke out? And so too for Hamas among the Palestinians. The problem was just as evident in Iraq. While the military moved in rapid order to topple Saddam Hussein, our non-military resources moved like they were stuck in tar. They fight over which agency will pay the $11.00 per diem cost of food at the same time that we are spending $7 billion a month and taking human casualties. It is high time to transform our civilian instruments of national power. Just as the military has divided the world into common regions with a single commander, our civilian agencies must now follow suit. With a single civilian leader, who like their military counterpart is fully empowered with authority, responsibility and resources, we can spread our great instruments of peace, like health care and the rule of law to nations everywhere. It is time that we apply these American wonders to make the world, and in turn to make America, a safer, freer, and more prosperous place. And so, we can project America's strength and its goodness to the world. But we cannot project more strength and more goodness than we actually have. What is their source? My liberal friends would say that America is great because of our great government. It is a great government. But that is not the source of our strength. The source of America's strength is the American people - hard working, educated, risk taking, God-loving, family-oriented, sacrificing, patriotic, freedom-loving American people. They always have been the source of our strength and they always will be! I have great faith in the American people. I have faith in our children, and in our grandchildren. But at the same time, I am deeply troubled by the culture that surrounds them today. Following the Columbine shootings, Peggy Noonan wrote an article describing what she called "the ocean in which our children swim." It was a cesspool of violence, sex, drugs, indolence, perversion. She said that the boys who did the shooting had "inhaled too deep the ocean in which they swam." I'd like to clean up the water in which our kids are swimming. I'd like to keep pornography from coming up on kid's computers. I'd like to keep drugs off the streets. I'd like to see less violence and sex on TV and in movies and in video games. If we get serious about this, we can do a great deal more to clean the swimming water. But there's another thing I'd like to do as well. I remember swimming one afternoon in Lake Huron, one of the Great Lakes. My friend Tommy McCaffrey and I were 11 or 12 as I recall. The lake was rough, with 4 foot waves breaking at the second sandbar. We were instructed to stay in close, but we wandered out too deep, and found ourselves being drawn beyond our resistance. Then suddenly Mrs. McCaffrey was there, grabbing us both by the arm. She had her dress on. And her face, it was serious. And it was set like a flint toward shore. I don't remember what she said. But I remember what I felt: thankful! I'd like there to be a lot more Mrs. McCaffrey's. I believe that the most important work being done to strengthen America's future is the work that is being done within the 4 walls of the American home. As a child swims through our increasingly polluted and turbulent waters, there is no help that is more sure than a loving mother and father. It is time that we say what we know: every child deserves a mother and a father. I know that many people are pessimistic about the future. The new generation of challenges is daunting. Freedom confronts enemies on far-flung battlefields, and its children of promise must navigate the troubled waters at home. Abigail Adams wrote to her son when he was concerned about the future of our democracy "great necessities, she said, bring forth great virtues." And so it is. I see them in the American people as I travel across the country. I have seen them throughout my life. On Monday we saw good and evil in stark contrast at a campus in Virginia. And while we'll always remember the evil, we must also remember the good. Liviu Librescu, an engineering professor at Virginia Tech, was a Holocaust survivor. It's fair to say that he had already experienced the worst evil imaginable. Yet on Monday he died while barring the classroom door with his body so his students could flee out of the windows to escape a brutal killer. As a posting on a website said, "Though not in height, he was in so many other ways a man of stature." America is a nation of stature, thanks to men like Professor Librescu, thanks to brave and patriotic soldiers around the world, thanks to great and noble men and women across the country. It is why we know that America will rise to the occasion of today's challenges. It is why we can be confident that, in the words of one great American this nation, will always remain a "shining city on a hill".
Thank you so much. It's an honor to be with you this evening. Oliver, thank you for your introduction. I want to thank you for the opportunity to address you tonight, and for letting me share in the 20th anniversary of the Syms School. Thank you to Sy Syms and his family. To the supporters, the professors, the administrators, the alumni, and all the students: congratulations on this great event. As you heard, I spent most of my life in the private sector, first by consulting the major corporations, and then by starting and acquiring companies. It takes chutzpah I believe to buy a company from somebody else, someone who knows the business inside out, someone who has decided that now is the best time to sell, someone who has hired an investment banker to hawk it to everybody in the world, and then to think that you, having paid more than anyone else in the entire world, you somehow think you are going to make a profit on your investment. It's truly an improbable way to make a living. But it worked, and far better than I ever imagined. During the fifteen years that I was the proud partner at Bain Capital, our compound rate of return on our investments exceeded 100% a year. Not bad. Now, what was the secret? There really wasn't a secret. What we did is done every day by you in the private sector. We started off with good people-highly intelligent, intellectually curious, driven people. We gathered extensive data and carried out rigorous analysis before we made our decisions. And then we used all that information to develop a highly focused strategy to make the enterprise more successful. I found that the same approach works in the public sector as well. Good people, data, analysis, focused strategy. It's not the way government usually does things, but it's the way government should do things. Today, America faces a number of critical challenges. In my view, at the top of the list is the threat of radical, violent Jihad and the associated threat of nuclear proliferation. I think many of us, including some of our leaders, fail to comprehend the extent of this threat. Take former President Jimmy Carter. President Carter thinks that Israel's security fence is the thing that keeps peace from coming to the Holy Land. Having just been to Israel, I came to the opposite conclusion: the security fence keeps peace in Israel - it's helping - that fence is helping prevent bloodshed and terror and violence. What Jimmy Carter fails to understand is what so many fail to understand. Whether it's Hamas or Hezbollah; Al Qaeda or Shia and Sunni extremists, there is an overarching goal among the violent Jihadists - and it transcends borders and boundaries. That goal is to replace all modern Islamic states with a religious caliphate, to destroy Israel, to cause the collapse of the West and the United States, and to conquer the entire world. Jihadism - violent, radical, fundamental Jihadism - is this century's nightmare. It follows the same dark path as last century's nightmares: fascism and Soviet communism. The September 11th Commission reported that al-Qaeda had been trying to acquire or build nuclear weapons for well over a decade. Former CIA Director George Tenet said that Osama bin Laden sees the acquisition of WMD as a 'religious obligation.' Jihadist clerics have issued fatwas authorizing the use of nuclear weapons to... 'defeat the infidels.' We are faced with the horrific proposition that those who speak of genocide are developing the capability to carry it out. Radical, nuclear Jihad is the greatest threat that faces humanity. It cannot be appeased. It can only be defeated. In my view, there are several steps that America has to take. First, we have to sharply increase our investment in national defense. I want to see at least 100,000 more troops in our military. I want to see us finally make the long overdue investment in equipment and armament, weapon systems, and strategic defense. That's going to require that we spend at least 4 percent of our GDP on defense. Let me show you, by the way, a little history here. Let's see if I can make this work. This shows the history as a percentage of GDP of the U.S. military. And you'll see that over time, we've made some pretty significant investments in protecting our country. In the Korean War, 11.7% of the nation's economic activity was associated with the protection of this land. During the Reagan years, it reached approximately 6% of our GDP. Today, it's down to 3.8% and I believe that we have to increase at least by 40-50 billion dollars a year our spending on military strength. Second, America has to become energy independent. Our economic and military strength require it. We use 25% of the world's oil. On this chart, you see where the oil comes from. The United States has approximately 1.7% of the world's crude oil reserves. We obviously have to become energy independent for strategic purposes and I'm not just talking about symbolic measures, I mean that we finally have to take the necessary steps to actually produce as much energy as we use. Third, we have to transform our international civilian resources, to enhance our influence for peace, and for security, and for freedom. Just as the military in our country has divided the world into common regions with a single commander for each region, our civilian agencies need to do the same thing. Fourth, we need to strengthen our old partnerships and old alliances, and inaugurate a new one. I agree with former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain that we should build on the NATO alliance to defeat radical Islam. And further, if I were fortunate enough to be elected your President, I'd call for a National Summit of Nations to create a new partnership - a Partnership for Hope and Prosperity. This Partnership would assemble the resources of all the nations of the world to work to assure that Islamic states that are threatened with violent jihad have public schools that are not Wahhabi madrases; that they have micro credit and banking, the rule of law, human rights, basic healthcare, and competitive economic practices. And fifth, we have to keep Iran from developing a nuclear bomb. Their ambition to develop nuclear weaponry is clear: they have a virtually inexhaustible supply of clean natural gas for energy, they have refused Russia's offer to supply nuclear fuel for their power. Obviously, their nuclear ambition has nothing to do with clean energy. Ahmadinejad has gone beyond the boundary of outrage, beginning with his calculated desecration of history. His purpose is not only to deny the Holocaust; it is to deny Israel. He is doing what another evil man did before him: conditioning minds to acquiesce to the elimination of a people. In January I was at the Herzliya conference and I discussed the threat of Iran. Since then, Iran continues to operate its nuclear program in defiance of the UN Security Council. It's expanded its centrifuge operations in Natanz. It's issued a new banknote that features a red nuclear symbol superimposed on the map of Iran. Earlier this month, Iran boasted the production of nuclear fuel on an 'industrial level' with a goal of installing 50,000 centrifuges. On April 9th, Iran marked a new national holiday - 'Nuclear Day.' Just look at the extent of their activity. These show the nuclear sites in Iran. This is not a little narrow project. Does the world understand what's going on here? Do they recognize the threat which is posed by this nuclear-developing nation? Some people, of course, think that it's possible to live with a nuclear Iran. That thinking is based on the theory that Iran, once it's granted the privilege of becoming a member of the nuclear club, that it will be a responsible actor. Neither their words nor their actions justify that kind of thinking. Others believe that frankly back in the logic of deterrence, which served us through the Cold War - that that will protect us. But for all of the Soviet Union's deep flaws, they were never suicidal. A Soviet commitment to national survival was never in question. And that assumption simply can't be made about an irrational regime that celebrates martyrdom like Iran. It's time to take Ahmadinejad at his word and act accordingly. We are going to continue to work, we'll work with the UN, we'll encourage China and Russia to work with us at the UN Security Council. But the U.S. and Europe can't afford to wait. I have proposed a strategy to combat Iran's nuclear ambition. Let me describe just a few of the elements. First, we should severely tighten economic sanctions. I think the Bush Administration deserves a lot of recognition for restricting access to our banking and credit services, because financial, and credit and monetary penalties are some of the most effective sanctions there are. And we must get other nations to act now to follow our lead. In my meetings in Israel in January it became clear to me that pension funds, such as the one here in New York City, have invested in companies like the French oil giant, Total. After New York State named its Comptroller, I wrote him, and I also wrote to Governor Spitzer, and Senators Schumer and Clinton and urged them to disinvest from companies that have significant operations in collaboration with Iranian regimes. Second, I think it's important for us to isolate Iran diplomatically. Their leaders should be made to feel exactly like those of Apartheid South Africa, or worse. That's why I ordered the state police of Massachusetts to refuse security details for former Iranian President Khatami when he came to Harvard. Of course, we can communicate and talk with Iran and I support the upcoming efforts to discuss security in Iraq with Iraq's leaders and their neighbors in the region. But until there are indications that high level engagement would do anything other than reward bad behavior, I don't believe that we should be engaging Iran in direct, bilateral negotiations over their nuclear weapons program. Iran's nuclear intransigence is repulsive to the entire world and we shouldn't let Iran try to position it as an Iran vs. a US thing. Now there is one place of course where I'd welcome Ahmadinejad with open arms: and that's in a court where he would stand trial for incitement to genocide, under the terms of the Genocide Convention. There's a third effort. Arab states need to join this effort to prevent a nuclear Iran. These states can do a lot more than just wring their hands and urge America to do all the work. They should support Iraq's nascent government; they can help America's focus on Iran quickly by turning down the temperature on the Arab-Israeli conflict; they can stop the financial and weapons flows to Hamas and Hezbollah; and they must tell their Palestinian friends to drop their campaign of terror and recognize Israel's right to exist. This one's a little sensitive. Listen carefully. Fourth, we have to make it clear to the Iranian people that while nuclear capabilities may be the source of pride, they can also be a source of peril. If nuclear material from Iran falls into the hands of terrorists and is used, it would provoke a devastating response from the entire civilized world to the very nation that supplied it. There is yet another source of Jihadist nuclear danger, beyond Iran. It's the pursuit by Jihadists of acquiring what are commonly known as 'loose nukes.' The Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, which was launched last year, was a good start, but we need to accelerate and expand it. First, I'd appoint a senior American official to serve as Ambassador-at-Large to Prevent Nuclear Terror. He or she would have the authority and resources to work across agencies and departments in the United States to ensure that our strategies are coordinated here, and abroad. Further, I'd promote an international initiative to develop a new body of international law that would make nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity, on a par with genocide and war crimes. And by allowing for universal jurisdiction, charges can be brought up at any court, to help prevent traffickers from hiding in complicit or weak countries. Already, people have been caught trying to smuggle nuclear materials to sell them on the black market. Their acts shouldn't be dismissed with the kind of nonchalance that sometimes accompanies routine violation of the laws. Countries that want to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes should convene to reaffirm their commitment to non-proliferation. For years now, we have depended on the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty as the centerpiece. But recent technological and political developments suggest that the bargain at the center of this effort needs to be updated. We need to set a 'gold standard' for security, given the amount of highly enriched uranium that still exists in the world. Let me show you where it is. The countries in red are countries that have over ten thousand kilograms of highly enriched uranium and various research facilities around their lands. As you look at that, you recognize why it is that we don't want to break off discussions with Russia. There's a lot of cooperation that we need to keep in place with Russia, because they've got to be engaged in frank and open discussions about the serious and disturbing turn of events in their own country. But we also have to remain a partner with them on the issue of securing the vast amount of highly enriched nuclear material in their country. Finally, the United States in my view should take the lead in organizing an international fuel bank, which would guarantee low-cost supplies of nuclear reactor fuel to countries willing to abide by very high standards for safety and security. The threat from Jihad is real and it is exacerbated by the demographic crisis. Today, over half the region is under 22 years old. The combined GDP of all Arab nations, including their oil revenue, is less than Spain's. Think of that. And with the growing population and lack of jobs, the ground for radical Islam will be increasingly fertile. Let me show you some slides I think are pretty interesting. This shows the map of the world drawn to the scale of where the proportion of the world's wealth was in 1960. Look at the United States - extraordinary wealth, larger than any other land in the world by far. Europe is shown in the pinkish colors there - that's western Europe. The blue is eastern Europe and then you'll see Africa of course very small in terms of portion of the economy of the world. The Middle East is in the light green. You can see India there in the yellow, right next to India, to the west of India is of course Pakistan. China is the bright green and Japan is the purple. Look how that changes as projected for 2015. Look what happens to China. Look what happens to Europe. But the Middle East continues to be extraordinarily small in terms of its economic clout. And Northern Africa, where Jihad is also rampant, is a tiny portion of the world's economic vitality in the year 2015. This is as projected by the UN. Where are the babies being born? Let's look at the same map, but instead of drawing it based upon where the economic strength is, let's show where babies are being born. That's where population will be as of 2050. The very places that have the least income have the extraordinary growth in population. And this is the very fertile and very frightening field that we're going to have to encounter. And so because of this and many other reasons in the final analysis, only Muslims are going to be able to defeat radical Jihad. But we can and we must support moderate Muslims in rejecting the extreme and accepting modernity. We should remember that in the two other global confrontations with totalitarianism in the past century, it wasn't always obvious that we'd win. Indeed, in those conflicts, the balance of power was not always in our favor. Those were wars we could have lost, but we didn't. In the current conflict, defeat is not nearly as dangerously close as it was during the darkest moments of the Second World War and the Cold War. There's no comparison between the economic and diplomatic, and military resources of the civilized world and those of the terrorist networks that threaten us today. In those previous global wars, there were many ways to lose, and victory was far from guaranteed. In the current conflict, there is only one way to lose, and that is if we as a civilized world decide not to lift a finger to defend ourselves, or our values, and our way of life. I will not be silent, you will not be silent. Today, we can lead the world. We can and we must lead the world to do what it has sought for so many centuries-to accept different people and different cultures, to respect the inalienable rights of every child of God, and to welcome a time of peace and prosperity for all the children of our Creator. Thank you so much."
[Excerpts Of Governor Romney's Commencement Address (As Prepared For Delivery):] "I want to offer my sincere thanks to Doctor Pat Robertson for extending me the honor of addressing you today. "This university, its students, its alumni and the faculty serve as an example of Dr. Robertson's dedication to strengthening and then nurturing the pillars of this community and our country: education, fellowship, and advancement." ... "You know, I don't remember when it was exactly when I went beyond the sandbar. My family had a cottage on the shores of one of the Great Lakes. For the first 40 feet or so, the lake is shallow, warm, and protected from the big waves by a sandbar. That's where I spent most of the hot summer days as a boy. I liked it there. One day, my brother got me up on water skis. Perhaps fearing that a turn would cause me to fall, he drove the boat  and me  straight out into the deep. By the way, the lake is over 100 miles wide. I screamed the whole terrifying ride. But ever after, the deep water is where I wanted to be  body surfing in the breakers, water skiing, diving. Oh yes, the water wasn't as warm and calm, but it was clean and powerful and invigorating. I got out of the shallow water for good. "Over the years, I have watched a number of people live out their lives in shallow water. "In the shallows, life is all about yourself  your job, your money, your rights, your needs, your ideas, your comforts. "In the deeper waters, life is about others  spouse, family, friends, faith, community, country. In the deep waters, there are challenging ideas, opposing opinions, protracted battles of consequence." ... "You are, of course, giving a great deal of thought to your career. The economic environment may be more turbulent and competitive than my generation has known. Some of you will be tempted to stay near shore, where there are no big breakers and where you will never make any waves. Others will push beyond the sandbar, pursuing new frontiers, exploring new ideas, driving to achieve, to learn, to influence, to contribute. "That, of course, is the heritage of this land. The people who came to Jamestown 400 years ago may not have all been saints. But they were all pioneers. They crossed the broadest waters and dreamed the grandest dreams. Their spirit is the American spirit. It is why America surpassed our native England to become the world's most powerful nation. And it is the heart and spirit of the American people that make this country the hope of the world. Great people have made a great nation." ... "If there ever was a time for great Americans, great and good Americans, Americans who are willing to cross into the deep waters of life, it is now. "You cross into the deep waters by marrying and raising good children. There is no work more important to America's future that the work that is done within the four walls of the American home. "You cross into the deep waters by driving yourself in your education and in your avocation beyond the safe and comfortable, to reach new insights, to make contributions, to serve. "You cross into the deep waters by serving in your church, in your community, in the military, in government or in volunteer service. "I am optimistic about the future of America because I have seen the spirit and heart of the American people." ...
It's a honor to be with you and be with people who exemplify the pro-life values throughout their lives. I believe it's an honor to receive this award, as you can imagine. I recognize that it is awarded for where I am on the issue of life, not for where I've been. And I respect the fact that you arrived at this place of principle a long, long time ago. And I appreciate the fact that you're inclined to honor someone who arrived here only a few years ago. I'm evidence that your work, that your relentless campaign to promote the sanctity of human life, bears fruit. And I do follow, as Kevin indicated, a long line of converts - George Herbert Walker Bush, Henry Hyde, Ronald Reagan. Each of them made meaningful contributions to this cause. It is instructive to see the double standard at work here. When a pro-life figure changes to pro-choice, it hardly gets a mention. But when someone becomes pro-life, the pundits go into high dudgeon. And so, I'm humbled and grateful to be welcomed this evening so warmly and so openly. I think a lot of you know that you were always welcome in my office when I was Governor. Together we worked arm-in-arm on a number of issues. And I can promise you this - if I'm lucky enough to win a couple of elections ahead of me, that will also be the case when I'm President. I'm often asked when I go traveling around the country, how I, as a conservative Republican, could possibly have been elected in Massachusetts. And I tell them there were three things that helped account for a relatively improbable victory. Let me just reverse these for a moment. One, of course, was the state was in a fiscal crisis. A meltdown, of sorts. Beacon Hill couldn't get budgets done on time. Another big tax hike looked like it was on the way. And I promised that I would balance the budget without raising taxes. And, as you know, together with the legislature, that's what we did. We eliminated a $3 billion shortfall. And by the time I left, our surpluses had replenished the rainy-day fund to over $2 billion. Second, we were in a jobs crisis. We were losing jobs every month in Massachusetts. People were afraid. I went to work to bring jobs back to our state. From the end of the recession, we added some 60,000 new jobs to Massachusetts. And we finally got our economic development act together. It's in large measure responsible for a lot of the economic growth that we continue to experience even to this day. And third, I think that values also played a role in my campaign success. My opponent said that she would sign a bill in favor of gay marriage. I said that I oppose gay marriage and civil unions. My opponent favored bilingual education in school, remember? I did not. I said that to be successful in America, kids needed to learn the language of America. And as you will surely recall, my opponent wanted to lower the age of consent for an abortion from 18 to 16 - and I said no way. And so, social conservatives, many of them Democrats and Independents, joined fiscal conservatives to elect a Republican. Now, that being said, I had no inkling that I was going to find myself in the center of the battlefield on virtually every social issue of our time after becoming Governor. The first battle came, as you recall, when the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, decided by a one vote majority, they found a right to same-sex marriage in our constitution. Now, I'm sure that John Adams, who wrote our constitution, would be surprised. The Court said that traditional marriage as we have known it, and I quote here, 'is rooted in persistent prejudices,' that's marriage, it's rooted in persistent prejudices, and 'works a deep and scarring hardship ... for no rational reason.' 'For no rational reason' they said. How about children? Isn't marriage about the development and nurturing of children? And isn't a child's development enhanced by access to both genders, by having both a mom and a dad. I believe that the Court erred because it focused on adults and adult rights. They should have focused on the rights of children. The ideal setting for raising a child is in a home with a loving mom and a loving dad. I can tell by your applause that many of you joined the effort to stop, or block or to slow down this very unprecedented Court decision. We took every step we could think of, within the law. First, we pushed for a stay - that was denied. Then, we fought for an amendment limiting marriage to a relationship between a man and a woman - that lost in the legislature by only two votes. We upheld the 1913 law that prohibited out of state couples from coming to Massachusetts and getting married here. That prevented us from becoming the Las Vegas of gay marriage. And in the final analysis, as you know, we went to work to secure a vote of the citizens, and that's a battle that took us all the way to Court, we got a win there. And now we're just one step away from putting it back on the ballot. And I'm sure this Representative and this Senator will get the job done. Of course, the issue now is whether a single vote majority of our Supreme Judicial Court will be allowed to trump the voice of the people in a democracy. If it is, then John Adams would truly be astonished. By the way, we learned that the phrase 'slippery slope' describes a very real phenomenon because the implications of the marriage decision quickly went well beyond adult rights and adult marriage. Efforts were made to change the birth certificate by removing 'mother' and 'father' and replacing them with 'parent A' and 'parent B.' I said no to that. And parents of a child in the 2nd grade were told that their son had to listen to a book called the 'King and the King,' about a prince who marries a prince. The school's rationale was since gay marriage was legal in Massachusetts, there's nothing wrong with such a policy. And then one more slide along the slippery slope. The Catholic Church was forced to end its adoption service, which was crucial in helping the state find some homes for some of our most difficult to place children. Why? Because the Church favors placements in homes with a mother and a father. And now, even religious freedom was being trumped by the new-found right of gay marriage. So you know why I immediately drafted and introduced legislation to grant religious liberty protection, but the legislature hasn't taken it up yet. Now, I've taken this message to Washington, explaining the far-reaching implications of the gay marriage decision and the need to support a federal amendment to protect marriage. I testified before Congress. I wrote to every U.S. Senator. You can write to them too, but they don't always listen. Unfortunately, several senators even from my own party voted against the marriage amendment. But that fight is not over. We're going to combine together, lock arms to win it. Now, in the midst of that battle, another one came up. And it involved cloning and embryo farming for the purposes of stem cell research. And as Kevin said, I studied the subject in quite a bit of depth. I have high hopes for stem cell research. But for me, a bright moral line is crossed when we create new life for the sole purpose of experimentation and ultimate destruction. That's why I fought to keep cloning and embryo farming illegal in Massachusetts. It was during this battle on cloning and embryo farming that I began to focus a good deal more attention of my own views with regards to abortion. As you know, when I first ran for office, I considered whether this should be a personal decision or whether it should be a societal or governmental decision. I concluded, wrongly, that I would support the law as it was in place - effectively, a pro-choice position. And I was wrong. The Roe v. Wade mentality has so cheapened the value of human life that rational people saw human life as mere research material to be used, and then destroyed. The slippery slope could soon lead to racks and racks of living human embryos, Brave New World-like, awaiting termination. What some see as a mere clump of cells is actually a human life. Human life has identity. Human life has the capacity to love and to be loved. Human life has profound dignity, dignity undiminished by age or infirmity. And so I publicly acknowledged my error, and joined with you to promote the sanctity of human life. And you know that my words were matched with my actions. As you know, every time I faced a decision as the Governor that related to human life, I came down on the side of the sanctity of life. I fought to ban cloning. I fought to ban embryo farming. I fought to define life as beginning at conception rather than at implantation. I fought for abstinence education in our schools. I vetoed a so-called emergency contraception bill that gave young girls drugs without prescription, drugs that could be abortive and not just contraceptive. That's my record as your Governor. It was fought against long odds. You know that, you go up against those odds every day. I always appreciated the strong support I received from you, the members of the pro-life community, for your actions. Now of course you recognize not everyone agrees with me or with you. You can't be a pro-life Governor in a very pro-choice state without considering that there are heartfelt and thoughtful arguments on both sides of the question. And I certainly believe in treating all people with respect and tolerance. It's our job to persuade our fellow citizens of our position. The problem is that there are some people who believe that their views must be imposed on everyone. More and more, the vehicle for this imposition is the courts. Slowly but surely, the courts have taken it upon themselves to be the final arbiters of our lives. They forget that the most fundamental right in a democracy is the right to participate in your own governance. Make no mistake: abortion and same-sex marriage are not rights to be discovered in the Constitution. I think Chief Justice John Roberts put it best at his confirmation hearing. He described the role of a judge. He said, 'Judges and Justices are servants of the law, not the other way around. Judges are like umpires,' he said. 'Umpires don't make the rules, they apply the rules...and I will remember that it's my job,' he said, 'to call balls and strikes and not to pitch or bat.' That's my kind of judge and that's the kind I'd appoint. On the tenth anniversary of Roe v. Wade, Ronald Reagan observed that the Court's decision had not yet settled the abortion debate. It had become as he said, 'a continuing prod to the conscience of a nation.' And now, more than thirty years later, that is still the case. Honored court decisions haven't settled this question, but have further divided the nation. And Roe v. Wade continues to work its destructive logic throughout our society. This can't continue. At the heart of American democracy is the principle that the most fundamental decisions should ultimately be decided by the people themselves. We're a decent people who have a commitment to the worth and dignity of every person, ingrained in our hearts and etched in our national purpose. So these are the challenges that face the next President: strengthening our country and our families, protecting marriage and human life and preserving for our children the true blessings of liberty. These are noble purposes, worthy of a great people. Thank you so very much. It's an honor to be with you."
[Excerpts Of Governor Romney's Remarks (As Prepared For Delivery):] "The right course for America in a world where evil still exists is not acquiescence and weakness, it is assertiveness and strength. "Following the end of the Cold War, President Clinton began to dismantle our military. He reduced our forces by 500,000. He retired almost 80 ships. Our spending on national defense dropped from over 6% of GDP to 3.8% today. He called it a 'peace dividend.' We got the dividend, but we didn't get the peace. Charles Krauthammer called our blissful disarmament a 'holiday from history.' "There are still some who are on holiday. They refuse to see Jihad as a global struggle, as a war. They would continue to reduce our military spending to finance social programs. They would celebrate, chanting that they are going to 'give peace a chance.' But it is strength, not weakness, that gives peace a chance. "Some of our citizens see the evil in the world, but argue that we should simply isolate ourselves from it. But one characteristic of evil is that it seeks domination over others, all others. Germany was poised to conquer one last European island and Japan had attacked our Pacific fleet  there is no safe place if evil is unrestrained. The weak may hide, but they become weaker still, until at last they are discovered, and easily conquered. "History teaches us this: the best ally of peace is a strong America. As Ronald Reagan observed: 'Of the four wars during my lifetime, none of them began because America was too strong.'" ... "In my view, a strong America is built upon several pillars. First, is a strong military. Teddy Roosevelt said we should 'speak softly and carry a big stick.' Lately, some of the enemies of democracy think that we speak loudly and carry a small stick. "I would like to see us strengthen our military by adding at least an additional 100,000 troops. I believe that we must also re-equip our troops, particularly after the loss of our armaments in the current conflicts. I want to accelerate our missile defense system. And we need to make sure that the veterans who have been willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom receive the care, the support and the outpouring of appreciation they deserve. This will mean that defense spending must rise, at least for a time, to 4% of our national economic activity, or more. "We must always be able to defend America on our own. But we know that our strength is amplified when it is combined with the strength of other nations. America is stronger when we have friends standing with us." ... "Our military strength depends in large measure on our economic strength. Today, America is the economic superpower. But that is not inevitable." ... "How must we move to stay ahead, permanently? Raise the bar in education, sharply increase our investment in research and technology, remove the weighty burdens of unnecessary government taxation and regulation, close the plaintiff lawyer's gold mine, and once and for all, actually do what it takes to become energy independent. It makes no sense to send a billion dollars a day out of our economy, often to nations that use it against us." ... "We can project America's strength and its goodness to the world through our military, our diplomacy, and our economy. But we cannot project more strength and more goodness than we actually have. "And so we must ask ourselves: what is the source of America's strength? "In the final analysis, a nation's strength flows from its people. The source of America's strength is the American people  hard working, educated, risk taking, God-loving, family-oriented, sacrificing, patriotic, freedom-loving American people. They always have been the source of our strength and they always will be." ... "Today, we face a new generation of challenges. Enemies of freedom have attacked, here and on far-flung battlefields. New competition threatens our economic leadership. Our children swim in turbulent waters. In the face of our new generation of challenges, I am confident that your generation and my generation will rise to the occasion. As Abigail Adams wrote: 'Great necessities bring forth great virtues.' The motto of this institution offers the same truth: 'Strength rejoices in the challenge.' You are up to the challenge. You have been raised in good families, taught in an independent-minded institution and schooled in the land of liberty. Together, we will keep America the hope of the world."
Thank you Carol. We appreciate your many years of dedicated service to the cause of life. I was honored to accept your invitation to address the National Right to Life convention. I am humbled to be standing among the many who have toiled for the pro-life movement for so long, when I arrived at this place of principle only a few years ago. I appreciate the decades of dedication and the effective advocacy of people like Jim Bopp, the Special Adviser to my campaign on life issues. I know that it is not time but conviction that unites us. I proudly follow a long line of converts  George Herbert Walker Bush, Henry Hyde, and Ronald Reagan to name a few I am evidence that your work, that your relentless campaign to promote the sanctity of human life, bears fruit. Consider the double standard at work here, by the way. When a pro-life figure changes to pro-abortion, they get praised for their courage. But when someone becomes pro-life, the pundits go into high dudgeon. And so, I am humbled but also grateful to be welcomed so warmly by so many with whom I share a common dedication. Anyone here from the pro-life community in Massachusetts knows they were always welcome in my office when I was Governor. Together we worked arm in arm. I can promise you this  you will be welcomed, and we will work together, if I'm fortunate enough to be elected President. People often ask me how a conservative Republican such as myself could have been elected in Massachusetts. I tell them that there were three things that helped account for my improbable victory. First, the state was in a fiscal crisis. A meltdown, of sorts. State government couldn't get budgets done on time. Another big tax hike looked like it was on the way. I promised to balance the budget without raising taxes. And together with the legislature, that's what we did. We eliminated a $3 billion shortfall. And by the time I left, my surpluses had replenished the rainy-day fund to over $2 billion. Second, we were in an economic crisis. Massachusetts was losing jobs every month and our citizens were afraid of losing more. I went to work to bring employers back to our state. By the end of the recession, we added 60,000 new jobs. We got our economic development act together  which explains much of the economic growth that the Commonwealth continues to experience even today. And third, we were in the beginnings of a cultural crisis. Social values also played a role in my campaign success. My opponent said she would sign a bill that would sanction same sex marriage. I said that I would oppose gay marriage and civil unions. My opponent favored bilingual education. I did not. I said that to be successful in America, children need to speak the language of America. And my opponent wanted to lower the age of consent for an abortion from 18 to 16  and I did not. And so, social conservatives, many of them Democrats and Independents, joined fiscal conservatives to elect a Republican. That being said, I had no inkling that I would find myself in the center of the battlefield on virtually every major social question of our time. The first battle came when the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, by a one vote majority, found a right to same sex marriage in our constitution. John Adams wrote that constitution. I'm sure he'd be surprised. The Court said that traditional marriage  the natural union of one man and one woman  'is rooted in persistent prejudices' and 'works a deep and scarring hardship ... for no rational reason.' No rational reason? How about children? Isn't it clear that marriage provides the best environment for the development and nurturing of children? And isn't a child's development enhanced by having both a mother and a father? I believe that the Court got it wrong because it focused on the desires and perceived rights of adults. The Court should have focused on the needs of children. The ideal setting for the raising of a child is a home built on a marriage between a loving mother and father. Then came the 'slippery slope'  not the argument but the reality. The implications of the marriage decision quickly went well beyond adult marriage. Efforts were made to change birth certificates by removing 'mother' and 'father' and replacing them with 'parent A' and 'parent B.' I said no to that. And parents of a child in second grade were told that their son is required to listen to the reading of a book called the 'King and the King,' about a prince who marries another prince. The school's rationale was since same sex marriage was legal, the education system should advance the idea. And then another slide along the slippery slope. The Catholic Church was forced to end its adoption service, which was crucial in helping the state find homes for some of our most difficult to place children. Why? Because the Church favors placements in homes with a mother and a father. Now, even religious freedom was being trumped by the new-found 'right' of gay marriage. I immediately drafted and introduced legislation to grant religious liberty protection, but the legislature wouldn't even take it up. When I was Governor, we took every conceivable step within the law to stop, block or slow down this unprecedented court decision. Our goal was to take the decision away from the Court and give it back to the people. But yesterday, the Massachusetts state legislature, at the urging of the new Democratic Governor, refused to allow the voice of the people to be heard. The fight is not over. We need to take this battle to Washington again. We need to explain the far-reaching implications of the push to dramatically change our marriage laws. Now is the time to pass a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage in all 50 states. In the midst of that battle, another arose. It involved cloning and embryo farming for purposes of research. I studied the subject in great depth. I have high hopes for stem cell research. But for me, a bright moral line is crossed when we create new life for the sole purpose of experimentation and destruction. That's why I fought to keep cloning and embryo farming illegal. It was during this battle that I began to focus a good deal more of my thinking on abortion. When I first ran for office, while I was always personally opposed to abortion, I considered whether this should be a private decision or whether it should be a societal and government decision. I concluded that I would support the law as it was in place  effectively, the pro-choice position. And I was wrong. What became clear during the cloning debate is how the harsh logic of an absolute right to abortion had cheapened the value of human life to the point that rational people saw a human embryo as nothing more than mere research material to be used, and then destroyed. The slippery slope was taking us to racks and racks of living human embryos, Brave New World-like, awaiting termination. What some see as just a clump of cells is actually a human life. Human life has identity. Human life has the capacity to love and be loved. Human life has a profound dignity, undiminished by age or infirmity. My experience as Governor taught me firsthand that the threat to our culture is real and those in a position to do so must take action to defend it. Times of decision are moments of great clarity. Before I was Governor, the life issue was just that, an issue. But when responsibility for life or ending life was placed in my hands, I made the right decision. I chose life. Just like some others in the pro-life movement, a moment of decision became a defining moment. And so, every time I faced a decision as Governor that related to life, I came down on the side of life. I fought to ban cloning. I fought to ban embryo farming. I fought to define life as beginning at conception rather than at the time of implantation. I fought for abstinence education in our schools. And I vetoed a so-called emergency contraception bill that gave young girls abortive drugs without prescription or parental consent. That is my record as Governor of Massachusetts. Recently, I was attacked by one of my opponents because when I ran for Governor I promised to maintain the status quo with regards to laws relating to abortion in Massachusetts. Of course, I kept that promise. But in Massachusetts, that meant vetoing pro-choice legislation  as I consistently did as Governor. That's why last month I was honored with an award from Massachusetts Citizens for Life in recognition of the actions I took as Governor to protect life. The next president, especially if faced with a hostile Congress, will be confronted with many legislative tests, such as challenging the Hyde amendment and advancing cloning. You can be sure that I will be bringing my gubernatorial experience  and my veto pen  with me to Washington. The larger problem is there are some people who believe that their pro-choice views must be imposed on everyone. More and more, the vehicle for this imposition is the courts. Some say that it is 'OK' for the courts to impose their personal public policy preferences on society. I am not among them. Make no mistake: the claimed rights of abortion-on-demand and same-sex marriage are not in the Constitution. But the problem of an activist bench goes beyond the issue of abortion and gay marriage that. Slowly but surely, the courts have taken it upon themselves to be the final arbiters of our lives. They have forgotten that the essence of democracy is the right to govern ourselves. Chief Justice John Roberts put it best at his confirmation hearing, when he described the role of a judge. 'Judges and Justices are servants of the law,' he said, 'not the other way around. Judges are like umpires. Umpires don't make the rules, they apply them ... and I will remember that it's my job to call balls and strikes and not to pitch or bat.' Now that's the type of Justice that I would appoint to the Court. On the tenth anniversary of Roe v. Wade, Ronald Reagan observed that the Court's decision had not yet settled the abortion debate. It had become 'a continuing prod to the conscience of the nation.' More than thirty years later, that is still the case. Numerous court decisions have not settled this question, but have further divided the nation. And Roe v. Wade continues to work its destructive logic throughout our society. This cannot continue. At the heart of American democracy is the principle that the most fundamental decisions should ultimately be decided by the people themselves. I certainly believe in treating all people with respect and dignity. You can't be a pro-life Governor in the bluest of blue states without understanding that there are heartfelt and thoughtful arguments on both sides of the question. It is our great task to persuade our fellow citizens of the truth of our convictions. Strengthening our country and our families, protecting marriage and human life and preserving for our children the true blessings of liberty; these are noble purposes. I am confident we are worthy of them. After all, we are a decent people who have a commitment to the worth and dignity of every person. This is ingrained in our hearts and etched in our national purpose. Thank you."
We've just come from celebrating the 4th of July. For me, it was parades in Iowa and fireworks in Idaho. You know, the kind of celebrating the Democrats usually reserve for April 15th. But this week, we were celebrating our nation's birthday. July 4, 1776 was an inflection point in history - a moment that set a new course for America. Today, we face what is sure to be another inflection point in American history. A new generation of challenges, unprecedented challenges, means that we must change our present course. Domestically, our addiction to spending and borrowing is breaching crisis proportion. Competitively, our citizens choose to buy hundreds of billions more from foreign nations than they buy from us. And militarily, we face an entirely new type of threat - violent Jihad whose sponsors seek nuclear weapons. To confront unprecedented challenges, we must change. Both parties claim to be the party of change, and I think both are right. But there's a big difference in the direction their change would take us. Republicans look to our American heritage. The 4th of July marked our independence from England. But there was more to it than that. The Founding Fathers established a nation where the people were sovereign, not the state, not the king. We would not rely on the divine right of kings, or their whimsical beneficence. We would rely on ourselves. Succeed or fail, America would be the land of opportunity. So when Republicans talk of change, we are talking about opportunity and freedom. We are talking about people, not government. Democrats look beyond our heritage - they look to the Europe of the past. When Democrats talk of change, they are thinking about big government, big welfare, big taxes and big brother. But those are the very policies that led to Europe's decline. In short, big mistake. Look at how Democrats like Senator Clinton think about the economy. She said that it is 'time to reject the idea of an "on your own" society and replace it with shared responsibility.' She says she prefers a 'we're all in it together society.' I see, out with Adam Smith and in with Karl Marx! Don't Democrats see that individual initiative is at the heart of America's unprecedented march to world economic leadership? Adam Smith wasn't heartless. Adam Smith saw that individual initiative would produce the greatest wealth for the entire society. Can't Democrats see that since the 1970's while Europe's growth stagnated, America created 57 million new jobs? Look at unemployment, look at growth - America won, Europe lost. That's why Europeans are beginning to elect conservatives. Come to think of it, with her economic plan, Hillary Clinton couldn't be elected president of France! Senator Clinton's economic plan goes beyond utopian visions of collective good. She also has a special program for corporate taxes: she wants to raise them. It's time, she says, to require corporations 'to pay their fair share.' The last time I checked, American corporations were subject to the second highest tax rates in the industrialized world, just a smidgen below Japan. In our new 'flat' world economy, many corporations can move their headquarters and their operations almost at will. Just look at the economic boom produced by Ireland's move to lower corporate taxes. Let's not raise taxes on the employers who create jobs and national wealth, let's lower them! Corporate taxes aren't the end of it. Democrats have their sights on 2011 for a record-breaking personal income tax hike. And whenever you take money away from citizens, and give their money to government, you slow down the economy. When Democrats talk about change, they're referring to what you'd have left in your pockets. I have a different answer. Let's make the Bush tax cuts permanent. Let's kill the Death Tax. And let's have a new tax rate for middle income Americans who want to save their money, who are investing in America. The tax rate on their interest, dividends and capital gains should be...exactly zero! Our fiscal problem is not that we are taxing too little; it is that Washington is spending too much. Shame on both parties in Congress for all the earmarks, the waste, the duplication, and the failure to reform entitlements. I am proud to be the first presidential candidate to have signed Grover Norquist's tax pledge. But I have made another pledge as well. If I am elected President, I will cap non-defense discretionary spending at inflation minus one percent. That alone will save $300 billion over ten years. If Congress sends me appropriations that exceed that cap, I will veto them. I don't care if it's a Republican or a Democratic Congress. I will veto. And I know how to veto. I like vetoes. I vetoed hundreds of spending appropriations as Governor. And by the way, if Congress doesn't want to do the cutting itself, then give me the line-item veto. Of course, I will do more than veto. I will personally lead a top-to-bottom review of government programs, agencies, procurement and spending. It's time to cut out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication from the federal government. Only in Washington would someone think that 342 different economic development programs make sense. Cutting waste, streamlining, benchmarking - this is what I do. I have done it in business, I've done it in the Olympics, and I've done it in state government. I simply can't wait to get my hands on Washington! Funny thing, Democrats talk about raising taxes on people. We talk about cutting spending by government. For them, it's always government first, people last. Here's an inconvenient truth Al Gore won't tell you about  one thing you can count on if America elects a Democratic president is higher taxes. Time and again when Hillary and the Democrats see a problem, they think government first. There are 45 million people who don't have health insurance. That's not good for those people, and it's not good for everyone else either. When people who don't have insurance get sick, they go to the hospital and get free care. Free for them, that is, but expensive for you because you are the ones that pay their bills, either in your taxes or in your insurance premiums. The Democrats' solution? Government-managed universal healthcare. But the last thing America needs is socialized medicine - Hillary-care! At least Barack Obama had the courage to admit that his plan means higher taxes. It's just like P.J. O'Rourke said: 'If you think healthcare is expensive now, wait till it's free!' The right answer for healthcare isn't government, and the new Secretary of Health and Human Services should not be Michael Moore. Let's provide people with their own private, affordable and portable insurance by insisting on personal responsibility and the principles of the free market. Let's not have the same bureaucracy that ran the Katrina clean-up manage our healthcare! The Democrats have a plan for illegal immigration as well. It's amnesty. Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and their colleagues insist that every illegal immigrant become a legal permanent resident of this country. Some people think that their position has less to do with compassion than with calculation - they hope these illegal immigrants will vote them in power forever. But this is not about power or politics. It is about sovereignty and security. And it is about fairness. Millions of applicants are waiting to come here legally, to be joined with family members, to bring education and skill that will strengthen our nation, not burden it. Legal immigration is a boon to our nation. We are made a greater nation when immigrants come here legally, seeking opportunity. Let's secure the border, install an employment verification system and tell illegal immigrants to get in line with everyone else. There should be no special pathway to permanent residency or citizenship for those who have come here illegally! Amnesty didn't work before and it won't work now! Beyond our domestic challenges, we face a very different world around us. Asia is emerging from generations of poverty. It's becoming a far more effective competitor in the marketplace than we have ever faced before. In the past, we've competed primarily with Europe. We know how to compete with Europeans - they are a lot like us. They like short work weeks and long vacations. But China and India are very different. Their workforce is almost never-ending; and it is very hard-working. Americans are buying hundreds of billions of dollars more from them than they do from us. The Democrats see this challenge and shrink from it. They don't think the American people can compete. They want to pull up the drawbridge to protect us. They're so pessimistic about Americans that they have been trying to scuttle free trade agreements with nations in Latin America and Central America. Are they kidding? We can't compete with Colombia? Our only choice is to compete. Fail to compete and you end up with a Soviet-style economy - laughable products, anemic standards of living and economic collapse. The answer for America is not to retreat, it is to lower the ramps and charge into the emerging Asian marketplace. Invest in our people. Invest in technology. Democrats fear the strength of others, Republicans believe in the strength of Americans! The new generation of challenges we face today includes challenges to our national security as well. Violent Jihadists are intent on replacing moderate Muslim governments with a Caliphate or Imam. And they seek the collapse of our economy, our government, and our military. During this last week, they sought to maim and kill innocent civilians in London and Glasgow. These were not impoverished malcontents; they were doctors serving in Britain's public health system. They were Jihadists. Theirs is a face of evil not seen in the civilized world since the gas chambers of Hitler's horror. I know that it is popular today to be critical of the President. And he is not above making mistakes. But we should thank him for doing everything in his power to keep us safe. Against the objections of Democrats and even some in our own party, he pushed though the Patriot Act. He made sure that someone was listening in when Al Qaeda was calling. He made sure we were interrogating terrorists to learn how we could prevent attacks on our citizens. When Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, was captured, he said, 'See you with my lawyer in New York.' Nope, that's not at all what he saw: he saw the CIA and our GI's at Guantanamo! All this talk of Jihadists, Salafi Muslims, and the War on Terror makes Democrats like John Edwards uncomfortable. Senator Edwards says there isn't a War on Terror - it's only a slogan. Tell that to the people in London and Glasgow. And to the people in Bali and Malaysia, Pakistan and Lebanon, Tanzania and Kenya, Saudi Arabia and Israel. Tell that to the people of New York and Boston and Washington, D.C. One thing you can count on if I am President, if there is a war being waged by the terrorists, there will be war waged on the terrorists. And we will win! This convergence of challenges is why I am convinced that America is at an inflection point in our history. Our over-spending, our dependence on foreign oil, the emergence of Asia, the Jihadist threat to world civilization  these challenges will force us to change. And that change will either make us stronger or it will make us weaker. America will either remain the world's superpower or instead become just another member of the family of nations. If we choose strength, we will be remembered by our children as a great generation. If we choose weakness, we will be remembered as something much less. Conservatism, Republicanism, is a philosophy of strength. We believe in a strong military, a strong economy, and in strong families and values. We believe in the American people. Democrats believe that government is the source of our strength. They're wrong. I love what Ronald Reagan said: 'It's not that liberals are ignorant, it's just that what they know is wrong!' The American people are the source of our strength - hard working, educated, risk taking, opportunity loving, God fearing, willing to sacrifice for their family and their country, freedom loving American people. They have always been the source of our strength and they always will be! And when you need to call on the strength of America, you don't strengthen government, you strengthen the American people. You strengthen the American people by letting them keep more of their own money, not by taxing them more when they earn, taxing them when they save and taxing them when they die! You strengthen the American people by making sure that the voice of millions of voters trumps the voice of a handful of unelected judges. You strengthen the American people with the world's best healthcare, the world's best schools, and the world's strongest families. We must preserve the institution of marriage - every child deserves a mother and a father! This is not a time for our party to shrink from conservative principles. It is a time to hold them aloft. We didn't suffer losses last year because we were conservative. We suffered losses because we strayed from conservative principles. Too much spending, too little ethics and a war that everyone recognizes was not effectively managed. The way forward is not to look left. The way forward is to look ahead. There is too much at stake to do otherwise. Shimon Peres, the President-elect of Israel, visited Boston not too long ago. He was asked what he thought about the conflict in Iraq. 'First,' he said, 'I must put that in context. America is unique. In the history of the world, whenever there's been war, the nation that wins takes land from the nation that loses. That is because land has been the source of value in the world. One nation in history, and this during the last century, laid down hundreds of thousands of lives and took no land. No land from the Germans, no land from the Japanese.' The only land America takes is enough land to bury her dead. America fights for freedom - for itself and for freedom-loving people around the world. This is the America our parents chose, a nation that is good, a nation that is strong. And now it is time for us to choose what America will be. I know what I choose. I know what you choose. We choose a strong America that will always be the land of the free, the home of the brave and the hope of the world."
It's good to be back home in Mackinac. One of the things I like best is that there are no cars on the island. Unfortunately, that's Al Gore's vision for all of America. I spent a few great summers here  up in that big white home on the hill. We need to get a Republican family back in there again. And we need to keep a Republican family in the White House in Washington as well! I don't have to tell you that my Dad made a mark on Michigan. And he made a mark on me. And I guess that is at the heart of things; he's a big part of why I'm running for President today. In 1957, when he was the President of American Motors, he gave a speech in which he reported the following conversation: 'My nine year old son'  that would be me  'came home from school and said "Mom, we really build the best cars, don't we?"' She said, 'Why Mitt, of course we do. Why do you ask?' 'Well, if we build the best cars, why is it that less than three percent of the people agree with us?' After my Dad heard of this conversation, he took me aside and said, 'Look, Mitt, size doesn't always indicate strength and popularity doesn't always indicate truth, and sales volume doesn't always indicate value.' And then he added: 'Right always prevails.' Quite a Dad, teaching lessons like that to his nine year old son. Lessons I have taken to heart. Now, a few years older, as I have looked at the history of this nation, I have become convinced that right does indeed prevail. America has faced and overcome great challenges. These have become defining moments, inflection points, where the course of our history has changed. I believe that we are at an inflection point today. Forces of globalization, the emergence of new economic powerhouses like China and India, and the spread of radical violent Jihad have created a perfect storm that will change the course of our nation. And, we face unprecedented challenges in securing our borders, protecting the family, creating new jobs and achieving energy security. The people of this great nation have always taken a hand in shaping our own destiny. I believe the American people will rise to the occasion once again, as we have always done before. But at this critical time in our nation's history, Washington is failing us. I think we'd have to admit that the blame doesn't all belong to the Democrats. We Republicans have to put our own house in order. We can't be like Democrats  a party of big spenders. We can't pretend our borders are secure from illegal immigration. We can't have ethical standards that are a punch line for Jay Leno. When Republicans act like Democrats, America loses. We've got to start acting like Republicans, not earmarking Republicans, not big government Republicans, but like Reagan Republicans and Teddy Roosevelt Republicans. They led us along the right course. It's time for us to show the confidence my Dad had that right will always prevail. It's time for change in Washington and change begins with us. Republicans for Change believe in small government. Governments should be restrained so that the freedoms and vitality of individuals and enterprises can be unleashed. Compared to free markets and free enterprises, government is slow to act, wasteful, duplicative, bureaucratic, inefficient, ineffective, and unresponsive. Have I left anything out? Other than that, government isn't all bad. Hillary Clinton fundamentally doesn't trust the private sector. Of course not, she's never worked in the private sector, except to sue people. So when she sees a problem in the marketplace, she naturally thinks more government and higher taxes are the solution. She sees the problems in healthcare, for example, and proposes more government. With her plan, patients would have to get used to hearing these words: 'The bureaucrat will see you now.' The right answer is less government, less regulation, more individual responsibility, and more of the market dynamics that propel the rest of our economy. This is why I predict that HillaryCare version 2.0 will meet the same fate as version one: ignominious defeat. Republicans for Change like small government. Republicans for Change are also fiscally responsible. We refuse to charge our children and grandchildren for our excessive spending. Even in Massachusetts facing a nearly $3 billion budget gap, the legislature and I balanced the budget every year and replenished the rainy day fund, without raising taxes and without raising our borrowing cap. Now it's Washington's turn to do the same. If I am elected President, I will cap non-military discretionary spending at inflation less one percent. If I get appropriations above that amount, I will veto them. And I like vetoes. I've vetoed hundreds of items already. Let's put some fresh ink in the Presidential veto pen! Here in Michigan, Governor Granholm has taken this state to the brink. By not restructuring state programs and by not shrinking government, she has precipitated a Hobbesian choice  raise taxes or shut down government. If you like what Governor Granholm has done to Michigan, you'll love what a President Hillary Clinton would do to America. Let's make sure America doesn't make the same mistake Michigan made last November! Republicans for Change believe in strength. We know that the best foe against tyrants and the best ally peace has ever known is a strong America. We will strengthen the military with more troops, better armament, and better care for our veterans. We will also strengthen our economy with lower taxes and energy security. And we will strengthen the American family. There is no work more important to the future of America than the work that goes on within the four walls of the American home. The American family is the foundation upon which this country's greatness has been built, but it is a foundation in need of shoring up. Republicans for Change know how to run a tight ship. The Katrina clean-up didn't look like Republicans were in charge. We need to bring more accountability back to Washington. You have heard of the sub-prime credit crisis. Well, there's a government agency that's supposed to prevent problems like that from occurring, warning consumers, warning lenders. But they didn't do their job. And do you know what will happen? Congress will give them more money. Do you know what should happen? Heads should roll. Republicans for Change have high ethical standards. I'm tired of hearing Washington officials remind us that everyone makes mistakes. Yes, but not everyone is a Congressman or a Senator or a President. They asked for this job and asked for our trust. They represent the American people. They are held up before our children. We expect higher standards of ethical conduct from Washington. We expect our elected officials to be good role models, not bad examples  thank you President Bush for restoring personal integrity and dignity to the White House. And I can guarantee you, Ann and I will do nothing that would embarrass the people of America! Presidents lead by example. And so, if I'm elected President, one of my first acts will be to issue an Executive Order prohibiting the immediate family of my Cabinet and Senior Staff from lobbying the Executive Branch. The standard for high ethical conduct has to be set at the top. Republicans for Change are respectful and civil. We will work with good Democrats, Democrats who also love America, to change Washington and confront the new generation of challenges we face. The political atmosphere in Washington has become so toxic, we are in danger of weakening ourselves from within. America needs unifying leadership. I've found that we can find common ground with Democrats from time to time. I love what Ronald Reagan said 'It's not that liberals are ignorant, it's just that what they know is wrong!' Well, we can teach them now and then, and when we do, America wins. Republicans for Change aren't afraid to tackle big problems. None is greater than the spread of radical, violent Jihadism. John Edwards says there is no War on Terror  it's just a bumper sticker. Tell that to the people of Indonesia, Malaysia and Bali. Tell that to the people of Tanzania, Kenya and Spain. Tell that to the people of London, Washington and New York City. There is a war being waged against us by the terrorists for the future of our civilization, and if I am president, the war against the terrorists will be won! Let's not forget that our President has kept us safe these last six years. And it has not been easy. He fought for the Patriot Act. He listened when al-Qaeda was plotting. He interrogated terrorists. When Khalid Sheik Mohammad, the so-called mastermind of 9/11 was captured, he told his captors, 'I'll see you in New York with my lawyers.' That didn't happen. Instead, he saw GI's and CIA interrogators at Guantanamo, and that's just the way it ought to be! Republicans for Change fight to protect the family. The family is under attack. Our children need to be taught that before they have babies, they need to get married. Out-of-wedlock childbirth should once again be out of fashion. There are different kinds of families, many doing a heroic job under difficult circumstances. The ideal setting for raising a child is and will always be where there is a mother and a father. Some liberal judges don't see it that way. That is why it is time for a federal amendment that defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman! After the Columbine school shooting, Peggy Noonan wrote that our kids are swimming in an ocean of filth  pornography, sex, violence, perversion. The boys who did the shooting, she said, had drunk too deep of the polluted water. It's time to clean up the water our kids are swimming in. I will make sure every home computer has an easy to engage filter to keep filth out of our homes. I want to enforce our obscenity laws. And for those who use the internet to find children for their perverted abuse, I say, 'One Strike and You're Ours!' You'll be facing a long prison sentence, and when you get out, a GPS tracking device for the rest of your life. Republicans for Change aren't afraid to talk about faith. We recognize the hand of the Creator in the founding of our nation. We will fight to keep the words 'under God' in the Pledge of Allegiance. Have you seen the new dollar coin? 'In God We Trust' has been moved. It's not on the face of the coin anymore, it's on the edge  virtually invisible, just like the ACLU wants Him to be. I will go to work to get God back on the front of our coin! I will fight to make sure our future is not defined by the letters 'ACLU,' but by the letters 'USA.' Republicans for Change are patriotic. We love the flag. We say the pledge. We tell soldiers in the airport, 'Thank you for your service, for your sacrifice.' And when a Republican says 'We support our troops,' it comes from the heart. Have you noticed what happens at the Olympics when someone wins the gold medal? Athletes from other countries ascend the medal stand, and they high-five and celebrate while their country's anthem is played. But Americans place their hand on their heart and they sing the words to the Star Spangled Banner. I don't know where our tradition of placing our hand over our heart during the national anthem came from. I imagine that it is a sign of love  for our flag, for America, for freedom. And it is something more  our hand covers our heart to show our appreciation for the patriots who have shed their blood for our freedom. 'O beautiful for heroes proved in liberating strife, who more than self their country loved and mercy more than life.' American patriotism is why I am convinced this nation will always prevail as the greatest hope of the earth. America faces unprecedented challenges, a virtual perfect storm buffeting the pillars of our strength. The course of our history will change. And for America to remain the great nation it has always been, it will look to Republicans for leadership. At the beginning of my remarks, I told you about that speech my Dad gave a half-century ago. In it, he quoted Ralph Waldo Emerson, one of the great American philosophers, who said, 'There is no weakness except from within, and the only unsurmountable barrier is our own inherent weakness of purpose.' That was true then, and it's true now. It's why change must begin with us. Now is the time, this is the place, for Republicans to stand together  to stand for Republican principles. Now is the time, this is the place, for the campaign of change to move boldly forward. Now is the time, this is the place for Republicans to lead America in strength, in faith, in family, in what is right. For right will always prevail. Thank you, and God bless you."
Thank you for your warm welcome. Thank you for the work you do to strengthen families and protect life. I think those who know me would say that I am pro-family on every level, from personal to political. I know this: the greatest blessing in my life is Ann and our five sons and daughters-in-law and ten grandchildren. My driving motivation is to have our kids and grandkids grow up in an America that is safe, prosperous and strong. To achieve that, it's not just what happens in the White House that matters, it is also what happens in your house. America's future will be determined not just by heads of state but also by heads of households. That being said, there is a good deal that our nation can do to assist and validate parents in their vital role. As C.S. Lewis said, parenthood is the ultimate career 'for which all others exist.' That rings true, doesn't it? That may be because of our Judeo-Christian heritage. We have been taught from our youth that marriage is ordained of God and that 'children are a heritage of the Lord; happy is he who hath his quiver full of them.' But there is another reason, a societal reason, for the fundamental role of family. Family is the building block of the nation; it is the economic unit of our society. This is not just rhetoric. It is reality. A mother and father who love each other and are devoted to their children will have children that are better educated, better adjusted, healthier, less likely to be raised in poverty and less inclined to crime and drugs. With two parents, there are more financial resources and more time to devote to the next generation  and there is someone around to take over when one parent is at their wit's end with the kids! Family also means that there is a compassionate caregiver when the inevitable sickness or infirmity strikes a family member. And when you consider the source of most of society's social problems, from teenage pregnancy to drug use to crime, you will find that they stem from the breakdown of the family. For all these reasons, a society is wealthier, healthier and stronger when it has strong families. In America, then, the family is a vital economic unit, the foundation of our nation. And it is the strength of this nation's families that ultimately determines America's strength in the family of nations. That is why I believe that the most important work for the future of America is the work that goes on within the four walls of the American home. Of course, not all families will have two loving parents. There are many great single parents  like my sister Jane, who raised four wonderful children on her own. So not always, but in the vast numbers of an entire nation, two parents are the ideal setting for raising a child, and for forming the economic unit of society. I certainly don't need to tell the Family Research Council and Focus on the Family that the American family is under stress, and under attack. One of the biggest threats to the fabric of our society is out-of-wedlock childbirth. Ann and I will use the bully pulpit to teach America's children that before they have babies, they should get married. It's time to make out-of-wedlock births out-of-fashion again. In 1965, a researcher named Daniel Patrick Moynihan was troubled by an alarming statistic  approximately 25% of African-American children were born out of wedlock. How would they escape poverty? Today, not 25% but 68% of African-American children are born out of wedlock. Bill Cosby related that in some inner cities: 'There are whole blocks with scarcely a married couple, whole blocks without responsible males to watch out for wayward boys, whole neighborhoods in which little boys and girls come of age without seeing up close a committed relationship and perhaps never having attended a wedding.' This simply breaks my heart. And then there are the broad national implications of this tragedy. A nation built on the principles of the founding fathers cannot thrive when so many children are being raised without fathers in the home. Ann taught a class of at-risk girls at Mother Caroline Academy in Boston. One day she asked her 5th graders how many of them wanted to go to college. Almost every hand went up. Then she asked how many were planning on having a baby before they graduated from high school  almost every hand went up again. And then she told them the truth: you just won't be able to do both. Every First Lady champions a cause. For Nancy Reagan, it was to just say no to drugs. For Barbara and Laura Bush, it has been reading. Ann has worked to help children make good choices like marriage and high school before having babies. If she is First Lady, this will be her mission. And if I am elected President, I will convene a White House Summit to look at ways we can strengthen the family, particularly in the inner city. In addition to using the bully pulpit, there are specific policy initiatives that I'd like to bring forward, as well as some goals we can set to accomplish together. I will re-align government incentives to encourage marriage, not penalize it. As we all know, few things had as devastating an impact on poor families as the 1960's welfare system. To some degree, that has been reformed, but there is more work to do. For example, a single mother with child care who marries the father of her child can lose as much as $6,000 a year in government benefits. Their combined incomes can disqualify them for Medicaid, housing vouchers, food stamps and welfare. It is time that we made fathers responsible for their child's health and care, whether or not they have married the mother. And further, the tax penalty we attach to married couples is simply offensive. The words 'I do' in marriage should not result in the government saying 'you don't' when it comes to the economic security of a family. Some years ago, Dr. Dobson met with President Reagan to determine how they could keep government from doing things that hurt families and that weakened the family structure in America. This meeting led the President to issue an Executive Order which established the requirement that new government policies and programs be subject to a Family Impact Statement. And then years later, without fanfare or reason, Bill Clinton simply snuffed it out. If I become President, I will re-instate the Family Impact Statement. In addition, I will initiate an audit of all current programs and policies which negatively impact families. And I will look to support the rights of parents who are not always consulted about decisions affecting their children. There is something wrong when a school can tell a parent that they have no right to remove their Second grader from a class where they are teaching about same-sex marriage. The work of being a parent is hard enough without the government making it harder. I will work with the people in this room, as I have for the past four years, to champion a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage as the union of a man and a woman. Within months of taking office as governor, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court got the gay marriage ball rolling. They said it was in our state Constitution. John Adams, who wrote it, would be surprised. It was not in our Constitution, but it was in the heads of a one vote majority on the bench to birth new law without the benefit of democracy. The Court's error I believe was that it focused on adult rights  if heterosexual couples can marry, it reasoned, then to have equal rights, homosexual couples should also be able to marry. But they forgot that one of the primary purposes of marriage is the development and nurturing of children. Every child deserves a mother and a father. The Court's opinion is as astonishing as its ruling. It said that traditional marriage between a man and a woman 'works a deep and scarring hardship...for no rational reason.' No rational reason? How about the strength and preservation of our civilization? And this is no longer just a Massachusetts issue. As recently as a few months ago, a judge in Iowa said that gay couples have the right to marry because current marriage law 'operates ONLY to harm same sex couples and their children.' Astonishing. After the ruling in Massachusetts, I testified in Washington in favor of a federal marriage amendment. I wrote every Republican U.S. Senator to support it. But even some of our own voted against it. Make no mistake: a federal amendment is the only way we can protect marriage from liberal, unelected judges. I will be a pro-life President. I will appoint and fight for justices who follow the law and the Constitution, who understand judicial restraint and who won't legislate from the bench. But being a pro-life president also means promoting policies that reflect our respect for the sanctity of life. I will oppose taxpayer funding of abortion, oppose partial birth abortion, oppose abortion in military clinics, oppose funding abortion in international aid programs, and I will work to ban embryonic cloning. I will work to increase adoptions by making the adoption tax credit permanent and raising awareness about embryonic adoption, or snowflake babies. And you don't have to take my word for it, you can look at my record as governor. On every piece of legislation, I came down on the side of life. I was honored to receive the political leadership award from Massachusetts Citizens for Life in recognition of the actions I took as governor to protect life. I am grateful for the work all of you have done for years on this issue. Like Ronald Reagan and Henry Hyde, I am a convert to this cause. I have joined the fight to win the hearts and minds of others, and to work to create a culture of life. I will fight the modern plague of internet pornography, especially as it effects our youth. Following the Columbine shooting, Peggy Noonan said that our children are swimming in an ocean of filth  pornography, perversions, violence and sex. It's time we not only clean up that water our kids are swimming in. Computer pornography has given new meaning to the words 'home invasion.' If I am President, I will work to make sure that every computer sold into the home has an easy to engage pornography filter so that every parent can protect their child from unwanted filth. And these predators who use the internet to lure in children? In my book, it's one strike and you're ours. Long prison sentences followed by ankle bracelets for the rest of their lives. I will take the campaign against drugs to a new level. We can do a better job educating our kids on the perils of drug use. Parents may be the best anti-drug there is. A study reported last month that young children who come from homes where families had dinner together five times a week or more were 1/6th as likely to have used drugs. Dr. Dobson famously wrote that 'parenting isn't for cowards.' I know how hard it is to raise kids in today's world. I want to help families by making sure that every family has health care. My plan gets every citizen insured, without new taxes and without HillaryCare and socialized medicine. We put a plan to work in Massachusetts and already, the ranks of the uninsured have been cut in half. I will work for better schools and better education for our children. I want school choice  every child should have an equal opportunity to have a good education. I fought and won the fight to add charter schools in Massachusetts. And by the way, let's do something to help parents who are home schooling with a federal tax credit to help defray the cost of their home schooling expenses. I want to help parents save for their children's college education. My tax plan says that for every family earning $200,000 a year or less, the new tax rate on their interest, dividends and capital gains will be absolutely zero. I will defend America's religious heritage. I am convinced that a family with faith, a family with a pastor or other adult who cares about every child, has a distinct advantage in guiding children to successful adulthood. I will make sure my Attorney General defends the free exercise of religion. The effort to establish an anti-religion in America, the anti-religion of secularism, has got to come to an end. We are a nation under God, and we do place our trust in Him. By the way  a few of you may have heard that I'm a Mormon. I understand that some people think they couldn't support someone of my faith. That may be because they've listened to Harry Reid. Actually, I'm pleased that so many people of so many faiths have come to endorse my candidacy and my message. My campaign is about changing Washington to strengthen America: I want to build a stronger military, a stronger economy, and stronger families. I call these the three legs of the Republican stool. These three unite the coalition of conservatives that Ronald Reagan championed  defense conservatives, economic conservatives, and social conservatives. We won't win the White House with only two out of three or one out of three. Republicans win the White House by motivating all three parts of our coalition to carry us to victory. We're not going to beat Hillary Clinton by acting like Hillary Clinton. My whole family has been working on my campaign. And we've loved it. But we take this quite seriously as well. We know that if we win your vote for the Presidency, we will be expected to live by a higher standard. Everything we do will be under a microscope, whether we like it or not. The First family represents America to the world, and just as important, it represents America to your children and grandchildren. We will live up to a higher standard. Our family is far from perfect, but we'll always try to make you proud. This, after all, is why I am running  to strengthen our nation so that our children and yours will have a safe and free and prosperous future. And to strengthen our nation, we must begin by strengthening the family. It is the place where America's future is born, and where it is shaped. I need your help in this cause. You know the importance of the family. You know what we must do. I can't wait for us to do it together. Thank you, and God bless you."
Thank you, Mr. President, for your kind introduction. It is an honor to be here today. This is an inspiring place because of you and the First Lady and because of the film exhibited across the way in the Presidential library. For those who have not seen it, it shows the President as a young pilot, shot down during the Second World War, being rescued from his life-raft by the crew of an American submarine. It is a moving reminder that when America has faced challenge and peril, Americans rise to the occasion, willing to risk their very lives to defend freedom and preserve our nation. We are in your debt. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, your generation rose to the occasion, first to defeat Fascism and then to vanquish the Soviet Union. You left us, your children, a free and strong America. It is why we call yours the greatest generation. It is now my generation's turn. How we respond to today's challenges will define our generation. And it will determine what kind of America we will leave our children, and theirs. America faces a new generation of challenges. Radical violent Islam seeks to destroy us. An emerging China endeavors to surpass our economic leadership. And we are troubled at home by government overspending, overuse of foreign oil, and the breakdown of the family. Over the last year, we have embarked on a national debate on how best to preserve American leadership. Today, I wish to address a topic which I believe is fundamental to America's greatness: our religious liberty. I will also offer perspectives on how my own faith would inform my Presidency, if I were elected. There are some who may feel that religion is not a matter to be seriously considered in the context of the weighty threats that face us. If so, they are at odds with the nation's founders, for they, when our nation faced its greatest peril, sought the blessings of the Creator. And further, they discovered the essential connection between the survival of a free land and the protection of religious freedom. In John Adams' words: 'We have no government armed with power capable of contending with human passions unbridled by morality and religion... Our constitution was made for a moral and religious people.' Freedom requires religion just as religion requires freedom. Freedom opens the windows of the soul so that man can discover his most profound beliefs and commune with God. Freedom and religion endure together, or perish alone. Given our grand tradition of religious tolerance and liberty, some wonder whether there are any questions regarding an aspiring candidate's religion that are appropriate. I believe there are. And I will answer them today. Almost 50 years ago another candidate from Massachusetts explained that he was an American running for President, not a Catholic running for President. Like him, I am an American running for President. I do not define my candidacy by my religion. A person should not be elected because of his faith nor should he be rejected because of his faith. Let me assure you that no authorities of my church, or of any other church for that matter, will ever exert influence on presidential decisions. Their authority is theirs, within the province of church affairs, and it ends where the affairs of the nation begin. As Governor, I tried to do the right as best I knew it, serving the law and answering to the Constitution. I did not confuse the particular teachings of my church with the obligations of the office and of the Constitution  and of course, I would not do so as President. I will put no doctrine of any church above the plain duties of the office and the sovereign authority of the law. As a young man, Lincoln described what he called America's 'political religion'  the commitment to defend the rule of law and the Constitution. When I place my hand on the Bible and take the oath of office, that oath becomes my highest promise to God. If I am fortunate to become your President, I will serve no one religion, no one group, no one cause, and no one interest. A President must serve only the common cause of the people of the United States. There are some for whom these commitments are not enough. They would prefer it if I would simply distance myself from my religion, say that it is more a tradition than my personal conviction, or disavow one or another of its precepts. That I will not do. I believe in my Mormon faith and I endeavor to live by it. My faith is the faith of my fathers  I will be true to them and to my beliefs. Some believe that such a confession of my faith will sink my candidacy. If they are right, so be it. But I think they underestimate the American people. Americans do not respect believers of convenience. Americans tire of those who would jettison their beliefs, even to gain the world. There is one fundamental question about which I often am asked. What do I believe about Jesus Christ? I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior of mankind. My church's beliefs about Christ may not all be the same as those of other faiths. Each religion has its own unique doctrines and history. These are not bases for criticism but rather a test of our tolerance. Religious tolerance would be a shallow principle indeed if it were reserved only for faiths with which we agree. There are some who would have a presidential candidate describe and explain his church's distinctive doctrines. To do so would enable the very religious test the founders prohibited in the Constitution. No candidate should become the spokesman for his faith. For if he becomes President he will need the prayers of the people of all faiths. I believe that every faith I have encountered draws its adherents closer to God. And in every faith I have come to know, there are features I wish were in my own: I love the profound ceremony of the Catholic Mass, the approachability of God in the prayers of the Evangelicals, the tenderness of spirit among the Pentecostals, the confident independence of the Lutherans, the ancient traditions of the Jews, unchanged through the ages, and the commitment to frequent prayer of the Muslims. As I travel across the country and see our towns and cities, I am always moved by the many houses of worship with their steeples, all pointing to heaven, reminding us of the source of life's blessings. It is important to recognize that while differences in theology exist between the churches in America, we share a common creed of moral convictions. And where the affairs of our nation are concerned, it's usually a sound rule to focus on the latter  on the great moral principles that urge us all on a common course. Whether it was the cause of abolition, or civil rights, or the right to life itself, no movement of conscience can succeed in America that cannot speak to the convictions of religious people. We separate church and state affairs in this country, and for good reason. No religion should dictate to the state nor should the state interfere with the free practice of religion. But in recent years, the notion of the separation of church and state has been taken by some well beyond its original meaning. They seek to remove from the public domain any acknowledgment of God. Religion is seen as merely a private affair with no place in public life. It is as if they are intent on establishing a new religion in America  the religion of secularism. They are wrong. The founders proscribed the establishment of a state religion, but they did not countenance the elimination of religion from the public square. We are a nation 'Under God' and in God, we do indeed trust. We should acknowledge the Creator as did the Founders  in ceremony and word. He should remain on our currency, in our pledge, in the teaching of our history, and during the holiday season, nativity scenes and menorahs should be welcome in our public places. Our greatness would not long endure without judges who respect the foundation of faith upon which our constitution rests. I will take care to separate the affairs of government from any religion, but I will not separate us from 'the God who gave us liberty.' Nor would I separate us from our religious heritage. Perhaps the most important question to ask a person of faith who seeks a political office, is this: does he share these American values: the equality of human kind, the obligation to serve one another, and a steadfast commitment to liberty? They are not unique to any one denomination. They belong to the great moral inheritance we hold in common. They are the firm ground on which Americans of different faiths meet and stand as a nation, united. We believe that every single human being is a child of God  we are all part of the human family. The conviction of the inherent and inalienable worth of every life is still the most revolutionary political proposition ever advanced. John Adams put it that we are 'thrown into the world all equal and alike.' The consequence of our common humanity is our responsibility to one another, to our fellow Americans foremost, but also to every child of God. It is an obligation which is fulfilled by Americans every day, here and across the globe, without regard to creed or race or nationality. Americans acknowledge that liberty is a gift of God, not an indulgence of government. No people in the history of the world have sacrificed as much for liberty. The lives of hundreds of thousands of America's sons and daughters were laid down during the last century to preserve freedom, for us and for freedom loving people throughout the world. America took nothing from that Century's terrible wars  no land from Germany or Japan or Korea; no treasure; no oath of fealty. America's resolve in the defense of liberty has been tested time and again. It has not been found wanting, nor must it ever be. America must never falter in holding high the banner of freedom. These American values, this great moral heritage, is shared and lived in my religion as it is in yours. I was taught in my home to honor God and love my neighbor. I saw my father march with Martin Luther King. I saw my parents provide compassionate care to others, in personal ways to people nearby, and in just as consequential ways in leading national volunteer movements. I am moved by the Lord's words: 'For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me...' My faith is grounded on these truths. You can witness them in Ann and my marriage and in our family. We are a long way from perfect and we have surely stumbled along the way, but our aspirations, our values, are the self-same as those from the other faiths that stand upon this common foundation. And these convictions will indeed inform my presidency. Today's generations of Americans have always known religious liberty. Perhaps we forget the long and arduous path our nation's forbearers took to achieve it. They came here from England to seek freedom of religion. But upon finding it for themselves, they at first denied it to others. Because of their diverse beliefs, Ann Hutchinson was exiled from Massachusetts Bay, a banished Roger Williams founded Rhode Island, and two centuries later, Brigham Young set out for the West. Americans were unable to accommodate their commitment to their own faith with an appreciation for the convictions of others to different faiths. In this, they were very much like those of the European nations they had left. It was in Philadelphia that our founding fathers defined a revolutionary vision of liberty, grounded on self evident truths about the equality of all, and the inalienable rights with which each is endowed by his Creator. We cherish these sacred rights, and secure them in our Constitutional order. Foremost do we protect religious liberty, not as a matter of policy but as a matter of right. There will be no established church, and we are guaranteed the free exercise of our religion. I'm not sure that we fully appreciate the profound implications of our tradition of religious liberty. I have visited many of the magnificent cathedrals in Europe. They are so inspired ... so grand ... so empty. Raised up over generations, long ago, so many of the cathedrals now stand as the postcard backdrop to societies just too busy or too 'enlightened' to venture inside and kneel in prayer. The establishment of state religions in Europe did no favor to Europe's churches. And though you will find many people of strong faith there, the churches themselves seem to be withering away. Infinitely worse is the other extreme, the creed of conversion by conquest: violent Jihad, murder as martyrdom... killing Christians, Jews, and Muslims with equal indifference. These radical Islamists do their preaching not by reason or example, but in the coercion of minds and the shedding of blood. We face no greater danger today than theocratic tyranny, and the boundless suffering these states and groups could inflict if given the chance. The diversity of our cultural expression, and the vibrancy of our religious dialogue, has kept America in the forefront of civilized nations even as others regard religious freedom as something to be destroyed. In such a world, we can be deeply thankful that we live in a land where reason and religion are friends and allies in the cause of liberty, joined against the evils and dangers of the day. And you can be certain of this: Any believer in religious freedom, any person who has knelt in prayer to the Almighty, has a friend and ally in me. And so it is for hundreds of millions of our countrymen: we do not insist on a single strain of religion  rather, we welcome our nation's symphony of faith. Recall the early days of the First Continental Congress in Philadelphia, during the fall of 1774. With Boston occupied by British troops, there were rumors of imminent hostilities and fears of an impending war. In this time of peril, someone suggested that they pray. But there were objections. 'They were too divided in religious sentiments', what with Episcopalians and Quakers, Anabaptists and Congregationalists, Presbyterians and Catholics. Then Sam Adams rose, and said he would hear a prayer from anyone of piety and good character, as long as they were a patriot. And so together they prayed, and together they fought, and together, by the grace of God ... they founded this great nation. In that spirit, let us give thanks to the divine 'author of liberty.' And together, let us pray that this land may always be blessed, 'with freedom's holy light.' God bless the United States of America."
You know, just as Dan Jansen pointed out, you win the silver in one event, it doesn't mean you're not going to come back and win the gold in the final event and that we're going to do. This thousand plus group of people here, and my whole family here, Ann and I, we have come a long way this last year. You think about where we started  an unknown Governor from the bluest state in America comes to Iowa running against, well at that time three household names  Rudy Giuliani, John McCain, Fred Thompson  and somehow tonight we beat all of them. We've just got to make sure we keep that up state after state after state. And you know, as I was going across Iowa over this last year with Ann, and the boys here, and my daughters-in-law and my grandkids, we heard something time and time again. People feel that Washington is broken, that Washington just can't get the job done. It's not just the White House they're talking about, it is Washington. They look at what's happening there and they say, 'How come Washington can't deal with illegal immigration? How come Washington can't build better jobs for us? How come Washington can't help us become energy independent? How come Washington can't get health insurance for all of our citizens without making it HillaryCare or socialized medicine?' Washington is broken, and we're going to change that. And Iowa said that tonight, Iowa said that tonight. On the Democratic side, a new face, Barack Obama. On our side, the top two contenders here, the top two finishers, both people from outside Washington. You're going to see change in Washington, because America recognizes that we're not going to change the nation and have a bright future if we just send the same old people back to Washington just different chairs. That's not going to work. We need new faces in Washington, and I intend to be one of them. You can't believe what's going on in our hearts, Ann and my hearts, as we were coming down here. We just talked about what it was like when we first came to Iowa, hardly knowing anybody and now we know thousands of people in this state who have warmed our hearts, have welcomed us into their homes, have talked to their friends and neighbors about us, and campaigned for us and made calls for us, thousands and thousands of calls. Some of you were joined by people from all over the country that came in to help us on this campaign. You have so inspired us. You so moved us. We will always remember our dear friends here in Iowa, and I am planning on coming back in the general election when we take on whoever it is the Democrats nominate. And so, to the people of Iowa and to our friends here: thank you, we love you, we're going to miss you for a few months, but we're coming back. We'll never forget what you've done for us. We love Iowa. God bless Iowa and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you so much. What a job you guys have done. Well, I spent the last about 45 minutes writing some very carefully thought notes out about exactly what I wanted to say. They're right here. But there's no podium, so I'm not going to use that. (LAUGHTER) I'll just tell you some things that I feel from my heart. Well, another silver, and it's -- another gold, then we got another silver. And now there have been... (APPLAUSE) There have been three races so far. I've gotten two silvers and one gold. (APPLAUSE) Thank you, Wyoming. But, tonight, congratulations go to Senator John McCain for running a first-class race. Congratulations on the gold, Senator. Great job. Let's give him a round of applause. (APPLAUSE) I know we'd rather have it, but he did a good job and out- competed us. And I want to say thanks to you for the work that you've done, particularly my national chair here, Senator Judd Gregg, his wife, Kathy Gregg, who was my state chair. Where's Bruce Keough, my other state co-chair? Where's Bruce? Bruce is over here. You know, normally we have our chairs on the stage with us, you know, not serving the soft drinks. Come on up here, Bruce. And, of course -- there's Bruce. Thank you, Bruce, our campaign manager. Where's Jim Merrill? Come on up here, Jim Merrill. Get up here, Jim. And you all know my sweetheart, Ann, and all of my family who are here with us. (APPLAUSE) This has been quite an experience for us, I'll tell you. We thought we knew New Hampshire, but now we really know New Hampshire. With almost 250 events that we've done across this state, we have learned why it is that New Hampshire is the first primary in the nation. There is a reason for it. The people in this great state really get to know the candidates, ask them questions, learn about their heart and their character. People of New Hampshire opened their hearts and their homes to us, and for that we will always be grateful. Thank you so much, New Hampshire. (APPLAUSE) You know, in all those events, as we've listened to so many people from across the state, we hear time and time again a similar message, and that is that people are frustrated. They're concerned about the future of our country, particularly our leadership in Washington. They feel that Washington is broken. And they've heard time and again promises that haven't been fulfilled by Washington. They've heard Washington say that they're going to stop illegal immigration, but they haven't. They've heard Washington say that they're going to get us off of our dependence on foreign oil, but they haven't. They've heard Washington say they're going to get people insured that don't have health insurance, but they haven't. They've heard Washington say they're going to improve our schools and make them the best in the world, but they haven't. They've heard Washington say that they're going to protect our jobs and make sure that the jobs that we have are the best in the world, but they haven't done that. They've heard Washington say they're going to balance the budget, but they haven't done that. They've heard Washington say that they're going to make life easier on the middle class and reduce the burdens on the middle class, but they haven't. You finally got it, didn't you? (LAUGHTER) And I believe that it's time to send somebody to Washington who will actually get the job done. (APPLAUSE) Thanks, you guys. I don't think it's going to get done by Washington insiders, sending insiders back to Washington just to change different chairs. That's not going to get the job done. I think you have to have somebody from outside Washington who has proven that he can get the job done in one setting after another. And as you know, I had the privilege of working in the private sector for 25 years and helped with a number of other people to make businesses stronger, not every time successful. I learned from the successes and the failures. And then went off to the Olympics and, again, with a great team of people, helped make that successful. And, then, the position of governor of Massachusetts, got the chance to make that state more successful, did something no one thought would be possible. We did get health care on track for all of our citizens in our state, balanced the budget all four years, rebuilt our rainy day fund. I've been able to get the job done. And I don't care who gets the credit, Republican or Democrat. I've got no scores to settle. I don't worry about who's going to be the hero and who's not going to be. I want to make sure that the America that this family inherits and your family inherits is an America that remains strong and the hope of the Earth. This is the greatest nation on Earth. (APPLAUSE) This is the greatest nation on Earth, not just because of our beautiful landscape, but because of the American people, and the heart and character of the American people, and the things they believe, the fact that Americans believe in hard work, the fact that Americans love opportunity and they love it above dependence on government, the fact that Americans are willing to take risk for the future and sacrifice for their families, that we are a family-oriented people, the fact that, by and large, Americans believe in God, and even those who don't believe in God believe in something bigger than themselves, the fact that Americans are patriotic. I will strengthen America. As your president, when I come back here next November, I will fight across this nation, onto Michigan, and South Carolina, and Florida, and Nevada, and states after that... (APPLAUSE) I'll fight to be back here in November in those states and in others, but I'll also fight to make sure that we strengthen this great country by strengthening our families and our homes where our kids learn those American values, by strengthening our economy. Look, if people wonder what direction America is going to head, if they choose a Democratic leader like Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, all they have to do is look at a state like Michigan, which has had Democratic leadership, where taxes have been going up and jobs have been going out, and where the industries are struggling. We want to make sure that we strengthen our economy and, finally, where we strengthen our military to make sure we're safe here and abroad. I will strengthen America. I will stand up for the values we believe in. And I'll make sure that America is, as it has always been, the hope of the Earth. Thank you so much. (APPLAUSE) Thank you.
Thank you. This is quite an institution. It's good to be back here with you. It's good to be back in Michigan. You know, somehow everything just seems right here. In the winter, of course, the skies are cloudy all day. Most of the cars you see on the roads are made here in the good old U-S-of A. People know that pop is not a relative, it's a soft drink, and they know that Vernors is the best ginger ale in the world. And of course, for me, I have a lot of memories here. This is where both Ann and I were born. It's where I met her. We were in our senior year when we went to a party together. I was in senior year, she was a sophomore. She came with someone else. I noticed her at age 16. She was very interesting. I went to the guy who brought her there and said, 'Look, I live closer to Ann than you do, can I give her a ride home?' We've been going steady ever since. So we know each other real well. I said to her after we made the decision to get into this race, and you've probably heard it before, I said, 'Ann, in your wildest dreams did you see me running for President of the United States?' And she said, 'Mitt, you weren't in my wildest dreams.' She'd be here today, but she's in Lansing, by the way, speaking at another event for me. First, one of the things I like best about coming back to Michigan is the memories I have in my heart of my Mom and Dad. One of my favorite stories, and you may have heard this because they told it more than once, was about my Dad's visit to Mt. Pleasant, Michigan, on the 4th of July. He got up and spoke before the town. He said, 'It sure is great being here in Mt. Clement.' There was this big ooooh in the audience and my mother leaned forward and said, 'George, it's Pleasant, Pleasant!' He said, 'Yeah, it sure is pleasant here in Mt. Clement.' Now I have to tell you, if I'm elected as President of this great land, I will not need a compass to tell me where Michigan is. And I won't need to be briefed on what's going on in the auto industry or what's happening to Michigan's economy. You see, I've got Michigan in my DNA. I've got it in my heart and I've got cars in my bloodstream. When I was living here, Michigan was the pride of the country and really the envy of the entire world. Detroit was the Motor City to everybody in the world. Of course, the Hudson's Thanksgiving Day Parade was one of the grand traditions my family enjoyed. And perhaps the biggest day of the year for me was being able to go to the Detroit Auto Show. This was really something. My Dad was head of a car company, you know, he made Ramblers. And we were escorted from the hotel with a police escort, motorcycles, awfully cool, even though we had to go in a Rambler. So exciting. But a lot has changed since then, as you know, and not all of it is good. Michigan is enduring a one-state recession, and the problem has only been exacerbated by poor choices made by some of the leaders in Lansing to raise taxes and take that course instead of cutting spending. Unemployment, now you know these numbers, unemployment at 7.4% is in the basement of the entire country. A state agency just this week forecast that next year it's going to go to 8.2% and after that 8.7% the year after. And the question is, what has Washington done with this looming, not looming, this existing crisis, this recession, what has Washington done to help? The answer is not very much at all. In fact, in face of all of the existing burdens that weigh down our domestic auto industry, instead of throwing over a life preserver, Washington has dropped yet another anvil on Michigan with higher CAFE standards. And now, it's passively sitting back to see if the car companies can swim. And the answer is: just barely. A lot of Washington politicians are aware of the pain, but they haven't done anything about it. And of course, I hear people from time to time say, 'Well, that's Michigan's problem.' Or, they say something like, 'Well, it's the car companies. They just brought it on themselves.' But that's where they're wrong. What Michigan is feeling will be felt by the entire nation unless we win the economic battle here. Michigan is a bit like the canary in the mine shaft. What's hurting Michigan, if it's left unchecked, will ultimately imperil the entire nation. What's at stake here, in fact, is even larger than that. It's even larger than an industry and a state. The world is seeing the beginning of a global competitive struggle. It pits at least four major economic strategies against each other, and each of them has far reaching consequences for the peace of the planet, the prosperity, and security of America and the world. Our strategy  the American strategy  you know well. It is economic freedom combined with personal freedom. That's our strategy. China's strategy is Communism combined with an unbridled morphing of free enterprise. China doesn't flinch at buying oil from the genocidal Sudanese government or selling nuclear technology to the Iranians who threaten genocide. Today, China alone accounts for one-third of our trade imbalance as a nation. There's a third strategy; it's based on the control of energy and oil. It's pursued by a resurgent Russia, by Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, by Iran's President Ahmadinejad. Today, as you know, our energy purchases account for another one-third of our trade imbalance. The fourth strategy that's being pursued is radical, violent Jihadism. It is a very different campaign. It wants to return the world to the economy and the human condition of the Dark Ages. Violent Jihadism has cost America this year more in our treasure than even our purchases of oil. And, of course, much more, it has cost the lives of our countrymen, and other people throughout the world. We're accustomed as a people to measuring our national security in terms of missiles and aircraft and defense spending. But I would suggest that as we look down the lane for this next century, a better measure of our national security is the health of our economy. You cannot have a first-tier military and have a second-tier economy. The Soviet Union learned that the hard way and Ronald Reagan taught it to them. Michigan's economic worries should be America's worries. I don't know about the Washington politicians, but I can tell you this: if I am President, I will not rest until Michigan has come back! I am convinced that Michigan can once again lead the world's automotive industry. But it means we're going to have to change things in Washington. We're going to have to go from politicians who say they are 'aware' of Michigan's problems to have a President instead who will actually take action to do something about them. Let me tell you some of the places where I'd start. First of all, we have to be honest about the problems we have and tackle them head on. If I'm President of this country, I will roll up my sleeves in the first 100 days I'm in office, and I will personally bring together industry, labor, Congressional and state leaders and together we will develop a plan to rebuild America's automotive leadership. It will be a plan that works for Michigan and that works for the American taxpayer. And as part of this, we will directly address and rectify the enormous product cost and capital cost disadvantages that currently burden the domestic automakers. From legacy costs, to health care costs, to increased CAFE standard costs, to the cost of embedded taxes, Detroit can only thrive if Washington is an engaged partner, not a disinterested observer. The plan is going to have to include increases in funding for automotive related research as well as new tax benefits including making the Research and Development Tax Credit permanent. I am not open to a bail out, but I am open to a work out. Washington should not be a benefactor, but it can and must be a partner. But that's only one step. Washington also has to stop loading Detroit down with unfunded mandates. Of course, we all want fuel mileage to rise, but discontinuous CAFE leaps, uncoordinated with the domestic manufacturers, and absent consideration of competitiveness, kills jobs and imperils the entire industry. Washington dictated CAFE is not the right answer. We also have to stop Washington politicians from imposing enormous unilateral energy costs on American manufacturing, including automotive manufacturing. For example, the McCain-Lieberman bill pending in Congress unilaterally imposes new high energy costs on U.S. manufacturers, with no safety valve. The Energy Information Agency estimated that this bill would raise electric rates by as much as 25% and gasoline by as much as 68 cents a gallon. And their estimate of the cost in U.S. jobs - 300,000 jobs. So it's not just a job killer, it would also make it harder for families to make their ends meet. Now of course we have to tackle the threat of climate change. But we don't call it America warming, we call it global warming. Placing caps and taxes on the U.S. alone just drives manufacturers to China and India, and does little more than make Washington politicians feel welcome at the embassy cocktail parties. Next, and you've heard this before, there is more healthcare cost in an automobile than steel costs. We got healthcare insurance premiums down in my state and we got everyone on track to be insured. We will work to do the same here and for the rest of the nation. And then a final burden, it's time to fix the tax code. Corporations, like individuals, need lower and simpler taxes. Embedded taxes put our products at a disadvantage in our home market and wherever they compete around the world. When we send for example, a Ford Mustang overseas, it's not just loaded with accessories. It's loaded with our excessive healthcare costs, our excessive regulatory burdens, our excessive legal liability burden, and the taxes paid by every single automotive supplier to help put product into that car. You take off those burdens and let's show them how fast a Mustang will actually go. Of course, taking off those burdens is only part of the solution. If we're going to be the world's greatest economic power, we also have to invest in the future. It's time for us to be bold. I will make a five-fold increase  from $4 billion to $20 billion  in our national investment in energy research, fuel technology, materials science, and automotive technology. Let's invest in our future. As you know, research spins out new ideas for new products, from both small businesses and large businesses. That's exactly what's happened in healthcare. We spend what $30 billion a year in NIH, and we lead the world in healthcare products. In defense, we spend even more. We lead the world in defense products. We also spend money in the space industry. And we lead the world in products coming out of space. Look how industries in these other states that have those advantages that thrive from the spin of other technologies, from our investment there. So if we can invest in healthcare, and defense, and space, why not also invest in energy and fuel technology right here in Michigan? Michigan can be a laboratory, just like other states  a drawing board, from which we can invent the future. Second, we'll turn government workforce training programs that are managed by bureaucrats, into personal accounts that can be managed by the workers themselves so they can gain education at community college or they can pay for on-the-job training in real jobs. There are currently some 40 different workforce training programs in government spread out all over the entire federal government. Now let's replace the bureaucracy and the bureaucrats with personal responsibility and individual ownership. Long term, we're only going to lead the world only if our students coming in now are the best-educated in the world. And you know this, almost every independent group that's looked at our public schools has said that we're falling behind international standards. And their number one prescription time and again  treat teachers like the real professionals they are. Better teachers should be better paid. Teachers should also be evaluated and promoted. And, here's a novel idea, education of our children should come ahead of the interests of the teacher's union. And finally, we have to shape America's trade policy to open markets for our goods and level the playing field across the world. For America to remain the world's superpower, we have to remain the world's economic superpower. And that requires us to successfully compete everywhere in the world. However, as we pursue new trade agreements, I'm far less interested in just getting an agreement signed than I am in getting an agreement signed that is good for America. I promise you that any nation that unfairly manipulates its currency, steals our patents and designs, dumps unsafe products in our markets, or stifles the American goods in their market place, will face a very aggressive President across the negotiating table. Now let me be clear, I strongly support free trade, but free trade has to be fair in both directions. And when the playing field is level, America can compete with any country in the world. And we will win. I came here about a year ago and talked about a number of actions which I thought were necessary to keep our national economy strong. I talked about cutting spending in Washington, about across the board tax cuts, about national tort reform liability, and I also talked about entitlement reform. But these aren't enough. What we face here in Michigan and what we face around the country if we don't take action here in Michigan, is a far more complex set of problems than most politicians have been willing to acknowledge. There is no one silver bullet. When it comes to getting Michigan back on track and building a strong America, we have to address every single problem I've spoken about. And I will. And by the way, that's what I have done all my life. I've taken on complex situations, led tough negotiations, found solutions, and then gotten things back on track. That was the job that I had as a leader in the business world, and then as the head of the Olympics in Salt Lake City, and of course as Governor of Massachusetts. And I am the only candidate with that kind of experience, and frankly, that's exactly the kind of experience that Michigan and America needs in the White House today. Now, I know that there are some people who don't think that there's a future for the domestic automobile industry. They think that the industry and its jobs are gone forever. And they're wrong. Innovation and change present the opportunity for transformation. And the burdens on American manufacturing are largely imposed by government, and new leadership in Washington can lift the burdens and lift the industry. Washington politicians look at Michigan and they see a rust belt. But the real rust is in Washington. The pessimist will point to an empty factory and a laid-off worker and say they have no future. Instead, I see vital infrastructure, a skilled workforce, and an innovative spirit, all worthy of an optimistic vision, and deserving of a leader who will work tirelessly to deliver the power and potential of Michigan and the American people. The pessimist says that the hundreds of thousands of jobs that have been lost, have been lost forever. That logic of course says that the 200 jobs that were lost last week at Willow Run, they're lost forever too. And by the way, that logic would also say that all the rest of the jobs in the auto industry will one day be gone forever, and there's nothing that can be done about it. Well, the pessimists are wrong. The auto industry and all its jobs do not have to be lost. And I am one man who will work to transform the industry and save those jobs. Now, after this speech, I am going to do with my son Tagg, who's sitting right there, what my Dad did with me 50 years ago. We're going to go to the International Auto Show where I will show him the best of today and the vision of what we can be tomorrow. And the next time I visit the Auto Show here in Detroit, I hope it will be as the President of the United States. Thank you so much. Thank you!"
Well, tonight, tonight marks the beginning of a comeback, a comeback for America. Only a week ago, a win looked like it was impossible, but then you got out and told America what they needed to hear. You said we would fight for every job. You said that we would fight to get health care for all Americans. You said we'd fight to secure our border. You said you'd fight for us to be able to get lower taxes for middle-income Americans, and Michigan heard, and Michigan voted tonight. Congratulations! Tonight proves that you can't tell an American that there's something that they just can't do because Americans can do whatever they set their hearts on. Tonight is a victory of optimism over Washington-style pessimism. Tonight, we are celebrating here in Michigan, I've got to tell you that. Guess what they're doing in Washington? They're worrying, because they realize, the lobbyists and the politicians realize, that America now understands that Washington is broken, and we're going to do something about it. America understands that Washington has promised that they'd secure our borders, but they haven't. Washington told us that they would live by high ethical standards, but they haven't. Washington told us that they'd fix Social Security, but they haven't. Washington told us they'd get us better health care and better education, but they haven't. Washington told us they'd get us a tax break for middle income Americans, but they haven't. Washington told us that they'd cut back on the earmarks and the pork-barrel spending, but they haven't. And Washington told us they'd reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but they haven't. And who's going to get the job done? We are! Guys, it was not very far from right here that Ann and I and our family behind us began our campaign at the Henry Ford Museum of Innovation. Wow that's powerful, I'll tell you. At the Museum of Innovation, we said that we're going to take innovation and change to Washington, recognizing that there's no way that an insider in Washington is going to turn Washington inside out. But we're going to do that. American voters said that knowing how America works is more important than knowing how Washington works. And what we're going to see in the next few days is Democrats saying that they're the party of change. You're going to hear Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama and John Edwards saying that they're the party of change. And I think they would bring change to America, just not the kind we want. I think they take their inspiration from the Europe of old: big government, big brother, big taxes. They fundamentally in their hearts believe that America is great because we have a great government, and we do have a great government, but that's not what makes us the best nation, the strongest nation, the greatest nation on Earth. What makes us such a great nation is the American people. I take my inspiration from Ronald Reagan and George Herbert Walker Bush, who took their inspiration from the American people  hard-working American people, people who believed in opportunity, who loved education, God-fearing people, people who also love their families, people deeply patriotic. It is that characteristic of the American people that makes us the most powerful nation on Earth. Ronald Reagan, George Herbert Walker Bush said we are a great and good people, it's exactly what we are. It's why we will always be the most powerful nation on Earth. Now, you heard right here in Michigan, our campaign, we said we were going to strengthen our military with additional troops and better equipment and better care for our veterans when they come home. We also said that we're going to strengthen our families. We said we're going to strengthen the economy. I will never accept defeat for any industry here in America, we'll fight for every job. I have a couple of questions for you. Is Washington, D.C., broken? Crowd: Yes! Governor Romney: Can it be fixed? Crowd: Yes! Governor Romney: Are we the team that's going to get the job done? Crowd: Yes! Governor Romney: Alright, let's take this campaign to South Carolina and Nevada and Florida and all over the country, and let's take it all the way to the White House! Thank you so much!
Ann and I are delighted to be in Jacksonville, but we are delighted to receive the news that we have received overwhelming support from the people in Nevada. Frankly, the figures seem almost unbelievable with 40 percent of the precincts in. And so I'm not going to comment on the numbers themselves, but we're very, very heartened and we understand that people from across the state came together to support us. It means obviously a great deal to us. We love Nevada, what a great state, and they have just made a wonderful day for us. In the last week, that means that two of the battleground states have come out strongly for our campaign. They've heard our message of change. They've heard our message that Washington is broken, that we need to have the kind of change that will solve America's problems. We won the primary together in Michigan, and we won this caucus process in Nevada. And if we were lucky enough to win Michigan and Nevada, that would be a pretty clear indication, in November of '08 that is, that would be a pretty clear indication we were going on to win the White House. We only have one other state that'll be key. That's the state we happen to be in right now, which is Florida. But if you can win those two states, Michigan and Nevada, it would mean you'd put together quite a coalition and have been able to make the kind of inroads you have to make to take the White House. So it's huge for us and we're very, very pleased. I'd also note that this is a campaign that does intend to participate across the country and we're not concentrating just on one region or a few states. We've made an effort to get to all of the early states and we're going to make our best effort to get to the other key states in the days that follow, although super-duper Tuesday is a difficult day to get 22 states. We're going to be working hard. ANN ROMNEY: We've got the five boys. ROMNEY: We've got the five boys. We'll be working -- and Ann. And we'll be working hard. I do believe that our message is also the message that will connect with the voters here in Florida. What you see in Nevada and Michigan, Iowa, New Hampshire, Wyoming, the first five states that we've really concentrated on so far, is that people are very concerned about what's happening globally, but they're also concerned about what's happening here at home and they want to know how our economy is going to be strengthened both short term and long term. Today, I announced a plan, which I'd like to see enacted within the next 30 days, to provide a stimulus to our economy on a short-term basis, as well as ignite long-term growth for the American economy. It calls for three major features. One is help in the housing market by loosening and relaxing some of the requirements of the FHA program so that more loans can be guaranteed and more people can stay in their homes without having them foreclosed. Number two, a very substantial investment to allow businesses to invest in capital expenditures and to expense those capital expenditures 100 percent for the next two years, which is a very substantial boost to purchases of equipment and other goods for capital -- for these companies and that will stimulate the growth of companies that supply equipment to them. And number three is help for individual consumers and, specifically, lowering the tax rate, the marginal tax rate at the entry level of our tax rate from 10 percent to 7.5 percent, and we'll do that not only for the '08 year, but also put a refund in place for the '07 year so that people will get a check in '07, which averages -- excuse me -- for '07 in April of '08 which would average approximately $400. And I am delighted that we have the opportunity to talk about this at a time which is timely. Our economy was strong last quarter. The growth was strong. But indications are that the economy is slowing down and that action, if taken now, could well avert a potential recession. So as we come here to Florida, we're going to be talking about our short-term plan to stimulate our economy, our long-term plan to keep America strong and to make sure that our economy continues to lead the world, that we have great jobs for our kids. And, of course, you're going to hear me say time and time again that Washington is broken, that it can't get the job done. It has not gotten the job done in the past. Now is the time with regards to this economy heading for a potential economic downturn that it has to move aggressively and quickly, but there are many other issues that also have to be solved. And that includes everything from getting health care for our citizens that's affordable and portable, to improving our schools, to solving the problem of runaway spending in Washington, to finding ourselves finally on a track to becoming energy independent and to abiding by high ethical standards in Washington. So there's a lot of work to be done and our campaign is focused on bringing change to Washington and one of those changes we'd like to see immediately is a 30-day turnaround on an economic stimulus plan. So with that, a lot of topics covered, thanks to the folks in Nevada for their great support and we look forward to getting the support of the people here Florida, as well. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) ROMNEY: I don't know that I have any particular reflections. I'll let other people take a look at those things. I made a number of comments about -- see? See? Maybe he wants to say something. I think it was pointed out to me that I won in Nevada among evangelicals, as well, according to the exit polls, and I think based on Eric Fringdom's (ph) calculation, if no members of my faith had turned out at all, I still would have won in Nevada. So I'm happy to have their support. I wouldn't want them to be disappointed that I didn't appreciate their support. But I won among Hispanic Americans, which is a very big statement for my campaign, very pleased that I got that kind of support, and I expect that this campaign will cross ethnic and religious and gender lines and will generate the support that I need to win the nomination. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) ROMNEY: I'd love to win Florida, of course. It's a very big state with a lot of delegates and I care very much about Florida. I would note that other candidates and campaigns also spent some time in Wyoming and Nevada and as for my home field advantage in Michigan, going in with a week to go, as I recall, I was behind in those polls and people who were looking at my home field advantage, who were my competitors in the race, pointed out that it had been 41 years since I'd been there and I really didn't have a home field advantage. And then when I won, they seemed to recognize that it was a huge home field advantage. I think the reason I won in Michigan was because our campaign there connected with the concerns of people in the state and I don't think there's any question but that the economy was the issue that drove my vote in Michigan, and a lot of people to come together and say, "You know what?" Our campaign and I, in particular, have experience in the private sector. I understand how jobs come and go. I'll bring that experience to Washington and help us at a time when, as we face challenges around the world and domestically, you have to have a strong economy with good jobs to be able to stand up to our needs around the world. So I reject the premise. I think we competed in all three states on a pretty aggressive basis. But I do acknowledge how important it is to win here in Florida and how much I'd like to win here. My guess is so would everybody else. We're all neck-in-neck in Florida, from what I hear, and you're going to see a lot of campaigning going on in the next several days as get ready for the 29th of January and hope to get the support here that would be of particular help, as well, getting ready (OTCBB:GTRY) for February 5th thereafter. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) ROMNEY: I think, as I've said, there will always be some people whose vote will be shaped by the faith of the candidate. I don't think that's the majority of people in the country. That may play a bigger role in some states than others and I acknowledge that, and that's just part of the American experience. It's not something I encourage, by any means. It's not something I welcome, obviously, in a state like Iowa, but, nonetheless, that's just the way things are. I think most people in Iowa and New Hampshire and across the country vote based upon the experience and the vision and the leadership capacity of the candidate and not based upon their religion, but there'll be some who focus on religion and that's just the way things are.
"I think people recognize now more than ever, that it makes a difference having a President who has actually had a job in the private sector. And not just had a job there, but has worked for 25 years in the private sector, and then in the Olympics and the voluntary sector, and then in government. I believe that experience is critical right now. "We're all watching with great interest the developments of the stock market. The stock market means a great deal to people living on fixed incomes that may have savings that are being affected by what's happening there. They want to see greater stability. But of course, more significant even than the stock market turbulence is the concern in the overall market, and the fear that we may head toward a recession. It's important that we take very aggressive action to turn the market away from a recession, to turn our nation away from a recession. That's why I've proposed a very bold economic stimulus plan. I know that's why the Federal Reserve has taken very unusual action with regards to their rate cut today. "There's a very decent concern about the implications of a recession and for that reason, my plan, as you know, calls for a three-part strategy to address a potential slowdown, or the slowdown itself, and that is it relates to help in housing to keep people in homes, help with individual incomes so people are able buy more and keep our economy going, and help with businesses so they purchase more capital equipment and therefore are putting in place the orders that will create more jobs." ... "I do believe that Congress needs to act immediately. My understanding is that the President is meeting with Congressional leaders today. I hope Congress is able to move very aggressively, very quickly. I like the proposals I made. If there are others that have similar economic features, fine, but let's take action and do our best to tip the market and tip the economy rather, in the right direction." ... "I think actually that what we're seeing in the stock market today is only one peek at what's been happening for some time in the overall economy, and that, is we have some intractable problems that Washington has been not been willing to solve. And everything from reining in overspending and entitlements, as well as other government spending, to leveling the playing field in international trade, to getting us independent of our dependence on foreign oil, these challenges continue to grow and grow, and Washington has failed to take action. And what you're seeing with the stock market reaction, here and around the world, is a recognition of these long-term features and an underscoring the need to take a different direction." For more information on Governor Romney's economic stimulus package, please click here.
"On a very different topic, we're at a gas station. And the reason for that is that I want to underscore the fact that Senator McCain's McCain-Lieberman would be a very expensive bill for the people of Florida. By our calculation, a family of four would have to spend about an extra $1,000 a year if McCain-Lieberman became law. And again that's because gasoline would rise in price by approximately .50 cents a gallon and natural gas would rise about 20 percent. The burden on Florida homeowners would obviously be excessive. "And what's particularly troubling about the bill is that the effect on the global environment would be negligible, and that's because the bill does not require other nations to participate in order for the regulation to be promulgated. And the effect of that would be that high emitting industries would simply move from a country like ours that had these limits to a country like China that did not. And the net effect would be that emissions had just moved from one country to another and also jobs had moved from one country to another. And what is left behind in our country would be the burden of paying for the entire cost of this symbolic act. "There's no question that symbols have value. But a symbol that costs a family of four $1,000 in Florida is a symbol far too rich and is not something which makes common sense. "I would note that Senator McCain is noted for three major pieces of legislation. I think all of them were badly flawed. And if somebody wants to know where he would lead the country you simply need to look at the three pieces of legislation with his name at the top. McCain-Feingold has not reduced the impact of money in politics, it has made it worse. McCain-Kennedy is viewed by virtually all as an amnesty bill. And McCain-Lieberman would cost the families of America as much as $1,000 a piece. All three are bills which evidence a lack of understanding of our economy, the very lack of understanding which Senator McCain has admitted on numerous occasions."
Almost, but not quite. You guys are my heroes. You took this campaign from nowhere to the very top tier. You worked your hearts out, and you made me a contender. And for that, Ann and I and our family will be forever grateful. Thank you so very much. Now, I just got off the phone with Senator McCain, and I offered him my congratulations. And I'm sure that you are excited here this evening, but a little disappointed, as well. And, you know, my guess is when you left your home this evening you put a son or a daughter to bed. And probably that's happening across the country, moms and dads are putting kids to bed, or already have, and they're sleeping peacefully. They're probably a bit like my grandkids, full of big dreams and plans, excited about every tomorrow. I remember, when I was growing up, I always knew that America was the greatest nation on Earth. First nation on the moon. Our cars and movies and technology were the envy of the entire world. And freedom and opportunity was just like the air; it was everywhere I went. I believe there was nothing I couldn't do, and I knew there was nothing that America couldn't do, because we led the world. Now, America's leadership didn't come without cost. It was won by the greatest generation in the history of the world. They defeated fascism, and they built the world's strongest economy. My mom and dad are gone, as maybe yours are, as well. What they and their generation left us is the greatest nation in the history of the entire planet. And now it's our turn. What kind of nation will we leave our children and our grandchildren? We can leave future generations a nation that's even greater than that which we inherited. But to do that, we're going to have to overcome a new generation of challenges. Our world is under attack from violent, radical jihadists. Our jobs are being sought by new competitors, countries like Asia and India. And here at home, our government is spending too much, we're using to much oil, our health care system leaves a lot of people behind, and our schools are failing way too many, and even our values are under attack. We look to Washington for leadership, but Washington has failed us. We've asked them to fix illegal immigration. They haven't. We've asked them to get the tax burden off our families and businesses. They haven't. We asked them to end our dependence on foreign oil. They haven't. We asked them to maintain high ethical standards. They haven't. We asked them to fix Social Security. They haven't. We asked them to stop spending money on pork barrel projects. We asked them to balance our budget. They haven't. We asked them time and time and time again, and they just haven't gotten the job done. You see, Washington is fundamentally broken. And we're not going to change Washington by sending the same people back just to sit in different chairs. (APPLAUSE) I think it's time for the politicians to leave Washington and for the citizens to take over. (APPLAUSE) It is time for a change in Washington, and here are some of the things we're going to do. First, we're going to strengthen our families. We'll make sure that every citizen in our country has affordable health insurance that they can't lose, private, free market insurance, not socialized medicine, not Hillarycare. (APPLAUSE) We'll make sure our kids have great schools. We'll treat teachers like the professionals they are, and we'll put our kids first and the unions behind. (APPLAUSE) And to build strong families, we'll teach our kids that, before they have babies, they should get married. (APPLAUSE) So we'll strengthen our families, and we'll strengthen our military. We need more troops; we need better funding; we need better equipment; and we need better care for our veterans. (APPLAUSE) And let's point out, to all those who criticized President Bush, that it's thanks to him that we've been safe these last six years. (APPLAUSE) So strengthen our families and strengthen our military, and finally we need to strengthen our economy. I spent my entire life in the real economy. I know why jobs come; I know why they go. I've been doing business in 20 countries around the world. I've run small business and large business. The economy is in my DNA. Many of the people across our country are worried about their retirement accounts. They wonder if they can pay for the college education of their child. They see their largest asset, their home value, dropping. Some wonder if their job is going to be secure in a new global economy. Americans wonder how they can afford the rising cost of health care, and gasoline, and taxes. These are real challenges. At a time like this, America needs a president in the White House who has actually had a job in the real economy. (APPLAUSE) You see, at a time like this, knowing how America works is more important than knowing how Washington works. The Democrats think that America's greatness flows from our government. They're wrong. The source of America's greatness is the American people. (APPLAUSE) Hard-working, innovative, risk-taking, family-oriented, God- fearing, freedom-loving American people have always been the source of America's greatness, and they always will be. (APPLAUSE) And so the right course for America isn't to strengthen our government, but to strengthen our people. And to do that, we're going to have to change Washington, and change will begin with us. (APPLAUSE) This presidential election in November of '08 is not about yesterday; it's about tomorrow. It's not about re-fighting the battles of the past; it's about winning the future for our children and their children and for America. When you go home tonight, and you go and kiss your son or your daughter before you go to sleep, you can promise them that this generation will meet the challenges of our time, that we'll leave them a stronger America. And you can tell them to dream big, because for the children of America every dream will be possible. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Thank you so much. (APPLAUSE) Guys, thank you. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! What an honor to have our friends here tonight. This is -- this touches our heart. It's so extraordinarily powerful to come here and see so many friends, and to see me behind here almost the entire Massachusetts Republican state legislature. (APPLAUSE) To have Governor Weld here and Kerry Healey, my lieutenant governor, and so many friends. (APPLAUSE) You know, Ann, of course, and my family, my sons and daughters here, daughters-in-law. But also at the far end is my brother, and don't ask me if he's younger than me. He's holder than me. My brother Scott, he's been campaigning all over the country for me. And I appreciate your being here tonight on a very special night. You know, Ann came to me and she said, "You know, the one thing that's clear tonight is that nothing's clear." But I think she's wrong. One thing that's clear is this campaign is going on. (APPLAUSE) AUDIENCE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! MR. ROMNEY: I think -- I think -- I think there are some people who thought it was all going be done tonight, but it's not all done tonight. We're going to keep on battling. We're going to go all the way to the convention, we're going to win this thing, and we're going to get in to the White House. (APPLAUSE) Now, I don't know -- at this stage it's really hard to tell how many delegates we're going to get, because a lot of states, of course, we haven't even heard from, the western states. We know that it's going to be close and interesting in states like Colorado and Montana and California and all over the West, and so we're going see what kind of numbers come in. We'll add those numbers up and have them bright and early in the morning. My guess is at our home we'll be staying up a little bit later than most of you will. We'll be looking at those numbers. But I have to tell you, there was a special feeling in my heart when I realized that the three places Ann and I lived have all voted for us -- Michigan, Massachusetts, and Utah. (APPLAUSE) And -- and we expect -- and we expect a lot more delegates come from a lot of other states as well. But, you know, this is fun and exciting to be part of an election scene like this, to have all of you here cheering us on. It's just remarkable to know how much work you've done, how much money you've raised, how many doors you knocked down, how many calls you've made. But you know why we're doing it. We're all doing it for the same reason, and that is we care very deeply about -- well, in my case, these folks up here, and in your case the folks at your home, your kids. For me, I'm very concerned about the kind of America they're going to inherit. I want to make sure that the kind of prosperity we've known, the peace that we've always experienced, the safety that we've always felt, that it's part of my kids' life and their kids' life, and theirs, indeed, as well. And I recognize that that doesn't just happen. You see, those that brought this to us paid a very heavy price to buy our peace. They built a strong military who was, without question, the most capable in the world. They built a strong economy that surpassed anybody's in the world. And they also gave to us values that are enduring, like believing in hard work and education, and willing to sacrifice for the future, and love our families, and love of our faith, and love of our country. And because of these great values and this great economy and our great military, we've emerged as the greatest nation on Earth. And now it's our turn to decide what we're going to give to our kids and to their kids. We face extraordinary challenges. I'm convinced -- and I mean this very sincerely -- I'm convinced that if Washington continues on its same course, America will emerge not as the great nation of the 21st century by the end, but as a second-tier power. It will passed by someone else. I can't tell you who it will be, but it would be passed by someone else. That will not happen. We'll keep America strong because we'll hold on to the values that have always made us successful, values that Ronald Reagan and George Herbert Walker Bush and Teddy Roosevelt and other great presidents spoke about. They strengthened our military with more troops to make sure that we could protect ourselves. They strengthened our families with good health care and good schools, and values that are enduring. And they strengthened our economy. At the base of our ability to lead the world as a robust and powerful economy. Right now, things are a little shaky. You hear people say, well, we're hitting a rough spot. It's more than that. It's more than just a rough spot. There's a long-term slide that we've seen as we're competing with people around the world, Asia in particular. And as our pocketbooks are being emptied by the oil-producing states, taking more and more money every single day from us, we can't allow our economy to continue to be weakened by these other competitors. It's time for us to lift America, to strengthen our economy. We're going do do that by keeping our taxes down, by getting regulation down, by having immigration work for us. That means stopping illegal immigration, protecting legal immigration. (APPLAUSE) We're going to trade... AUDIENCE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! MR. ROMNEY: We're going to trade -- we're going to trade with other nations around the world, of course, but we're going to do so on a level playing field. We're going to invest in technology and innovation and be the best and the brightest with new products and new designs, and make sure that we always lead the world. This is the future of this great country. Now, I know there are some who think that can all be done from Washington, but when it comes time to thinking about how we're going to guide our economy, I think it's more important to know how America works than to know how Washington works. And I think it's helpful to have... (APPLAUSE) And when it comes time to think about how our economy is going to build great jobs for our kids and their kids, and maintain the great military we have through our economic strength, I think it's important to have a president who's actually had a job in the private sector... (APPLAUSE) You see -- you see, at a time like this -- at a time like this we recognize just how broken Washington is. We've looked to them to solve our problems, and they haven't. We asked them to solve Social Security. They haven't done that. We asked them to balance the budget. They haven't. We asked them as well to rein in excessive pork barrel spending. They haven't. AUDIENCE: They haven't! MR. ROMNEY: We asked them to get health care that was affordable and portable for all of us. And they haven't. AUDIENCE: They haven't! MR. ROMNEY: We asked them to get education that's the best in the world. They haven't. AUDIENCE: They haven't! MR. ROMNEY: We asked them to live by high ethical standards. And they haven't. AUDIENCE: They haven't! MR. ROMNEY: We asked them to end illegal immigration. And they haven't. AUDIENCE: And they haven't! MR. ROMNEY: We asked them to get us off of foreign oil and let us be able to be energy-independent. And they haven't. AUDIENCE: And they haven't! MR. ROMNEY: It's time for the politicians to leave Washington and for we, the people, to take over! (APPLAUSE) This -- this isn't just about the heart and soul of our party. It isn't just about which part is going to win in November. This is the about the future course of our country. This is about whether or not Washington will finally deal with the challenges we face, whether Washington is up to the task of helping solve these problem, taking advantage of opportunities, making sure that our kids and their kids live in an America that's the greatest nation on Earth. It must be. It has always been. The world depends upon our sacrifice, our commitment, and dedication to peace and prosperity and to liberty. This is the greatest nation in the history of the Earth. We will keep it the hope of the Earth. With your help, we'll do it together. Thank you so much! (APPLAUSE) Now everybody -- Ann, has been the best first lady that... (APPLAUSE) ... the Romney family has ever known. And we're looking forward to having the entire nation get to know Ann Romney as first lady. My sweetheart, Ann.
Thank you, guys. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! ROMNEY: What an honor. What an honor to be here. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) Thank you so much. What a welcome. That is so fabulous. And it's such an honor to be introduced by Laura Ingraham. You know, we have all the fun. The people in our party, they're gorgeous, they're brilliant. It's wonderful to have Laura Ingraham on our side. You know that? She is wonderful. (APPLAUSE) Thanks to her and all the talk radio for what they do to keep the conservative movement strong and alive and vibrant. And I appreciate her generous introduction. And I love being introduced as the "conservatives' conservative." And that's exactly how I feel. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) I was also proud to be joined by my wife. You know my wife, Anne. She was here with me. And our five boys have been out campaigning. They're fabulous. It's been a family affair. (APPLAUSE) I want to begin today by thanking you. It was a real honor to be here last year. It's great to be here with you again. And I look forward to joining you many, many more times in the future. (APPLAUSE) Now, last year -- last year CPAC gave me the send-off I needed. At the time, I was in single digits in the polls, and I was facing household names in the Republican contest. As of today, more than 4 million people have given me their vote for president. That's good, yes. (APPLAUSE) That's, of course, less than Senator McCain's 4.7 million, but quite a statement, nonetheless. Eleven states have given me their nod, compared to his 13. Thank you to those 11. (APPLAUSE) Of course, because size does matter, he's doing quite a bit better with the number of delegates he's got. (LAUGHTER) Now, to all of you, thank you, here, for caring enough about America to show up, to speak up, to stand up for conservative principles. (APPLAUSE) As I said to you last year, conservative principles are needed now more than ever. We face a new generation of challenges: challenges which threaten our prosperity, our security and our future. I'm convinced that unless America changes course, we could become the France of the 21st century. (BOOING) ROMNEY: Still a great nation, but not the leader of the world, not the superpower. And to me that's unthinkable. Look, it was a while ago Shimon Peres came to Boston for a visit. He was asked what he thought about the war in Iraq. "First," he said, "I have to put something in context." He said, "America is unique in the history of the world. In the history of the world," he said, "whenever there's been conflict, the nation that wins takes land from the nation that loses. One nation in history, and this during the last century, laid down hundreds of thousands of lives and took no land: no land from Germany, no land from Korea, no land from Japan. America," he said, "is unique in the sacrifice it has made for liberty, for itself and for freedom-loving people around the world." And Colin Powell added, "The only land we took after the last great conflict was enough land to bury our dead." The best ally peace has ever known and will ever know is a strong America. (APPLAUSE) And that's why it is that we have to rise to the occasion, as we've always done before, to confront the challenge that are ahead of us. Perhaps the most fundamental of the challenges that we face is the attack on America's culture. Over the years my business took me to a lot of different countries, and I've been struck by the enormous differences in the wealth and the well-being of people from different nations. I've read a number of scholarly explanations for the disparities, and I've found the most convincing was written by a fellow named David Landes. ROMNEY: He's a professor emeritus at Harvard University. I presume he's a liberal. I guess that's redundant. (LAUGHTER) And his work traces the coming and going of great civilizations throughout history. And after hundreds of pages of analysis, he concludes with this, and I quote: "If we learn anything from the history of economic development it is that culture makes all the difference." Culture makes all the difference. What is it about America's culture that's led us to become the most powerful nation in the history of the world? Well, we believe in hard work and education. We love opportunity. Almost all of us are immigrants or descendants of immigrants who came here for opportunity. Opportunity's in our DNA. Americans love God, and those who don't have faith typically believe in something greater than themself, a purpose-driven life, if you will. And we sacrifice as Americans everything we have, even our lives, for our families, for our freedoms and for our country. These values and beliefs of free American people are the source of the nation's strength, and they always will be. (APPLAUSE) The threat to our culture comes from within. In the 1960s, there were welfare programs that created a culture of poverty in our country. Now, some people think we won that battle when we reformed welfare. But the liberals haven't given up. At every turn, they tried to substitute government largess for individual responsibility. They fight to strip work requirements from welfare, to put more people on Medicaid, and remove more and more people from having to pay any income tax whatsoever. Dependency is death to initiative, risk-taking and opportunity. Dependency is culture killing. It's a drug. We've got to fight it like the poison it is. (APPLAUSE) ROMNEY: The attack on faith and religion is no less relentless. And tolerance for pornography, even celebration of it, and sexual promiscuity, combined with the twisted incentives of government welfare, have led to today's grim realities: 68 percent of African- American kids born out of wedlock, 45 percent of Hispanic kids, 25 percent of white kids. How much harder it is for these kids to succeed in school and in life. A nation built on the principles of the founding fathers cannot long stand when its children are raised without fathers in the home. (APPLAUSE) The development of a child is enhanced by having a mother and a father. Such a family is the ideal for the future of the child and for the strength of the nation. I wonder how it is that unelected judges, like some in my state of Massachusetts, are so unaware of this reality, so oblivious to the millennia of recorded history. It's time for the people of America to fortify marriage through a constitutional amendment, so that liberal judges cannot continue to attack it. (APPLAUSE) Europe -- Europe is facing a demographic disaster. ROMNEY: That's the inevitable product of weakened faith in the Creator, failed families, disrespect for the sanctity of human life, and eroded morality. Some reason that culture is merely an accessory to America's vitality. We know that it's the source of our strength. And we will not be dissuaded by the snickers and knowing glances when we stand up for family values and morality and culture. We will... (APPLAUSE) Conservatives here and conservatives across the country will always be honored to stand on principle and to stand for principles. The attack on our culture is not the only a challenge that we face. We face economic competition unlike anything we have known before. China, and Asia are emerging from centuries of poverty. Their people are plentiful, innovative and ambitious. If we don't change course, Asia or China will pass us by as the economic superpower, just as we passed England and France during the last century. The prosperity and security of our children and grandchildren depend on us. Our prosperity and security also depend on finally acting to become energy-secure. Oil-producing states like Russia and Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and Iran are siphoning over $400 billion out of our economy. That's almost what we spent annually for our national defense. It is past time for us to invest in energy technology: nuclear power, clean coal, liquid coal, renewable resources, energy efficiency. (APPLAUSE) Simply put, America must never be held hostage by the likes of Putin, Chavez and Ahmadinejad. (APPLAUSE) ROMNEY: Our economy is also burdened by the inexorable ramping up of government spending. And let's be careful: Let's not just focus on the pork alone, even though it is indeed irritating and shameful. Look also at the entitlements. They make up 60 percent of federal spending today. And by the end of the next president's second term they will total 70 percent. Any conservative plan for the future has to include entitlement reform that solves the problem, not just acknowledges it. (APPLAUSE) You know, I've found that most politicians don't seem to understand the connection between our ability to compete and our national wealth and the wealth of our families. They act as if money just happens, that it just happens to be there. But every dollar represents a good or service that's been produced in the private sector. If you depress the private sector you depress the well-being of all Americans. That's exactly what happens with high taxes, over-regulation, tort windfalls, mandates, and overfed, overspending government. Did you happen to see, by the way, that today government workers make more money than people who work in the private sector? Can you imagine what happens to an economy where the best opportunities are for bureaucrats? It is high time to lower taxes, including corporate taxes, to take a weed whacker... (APPLAUSE) Get out -- get out that weed whacker and take it to regulations and reform entitlements and, by the way, stand up to the increasingly voracious appetite of the unions in our government. (APPLAUSE) And finally, let's consider the greatest challenge facing America, and for that matter facing the entire civilized world: the threat of radical, violent jihad. (APPLAUSE) As you know, in one wing of the world of Islam there's a conviction that all governments should be destroyed and replaced by a religious caliphate. These jihadists will battle any form of democracy because to them democracy is blasphemous, because it says that citizens, not God, shape the law. ROMNEY: They find the idea of human equality to be equally offensive. They hate everything we believe about freedom just as we hate everything they believe about radical jihad. To battle this threat, we've sent the most courageous and brave soldiers in the world. (APPLAUSE) But their numbers have been depleted by the Clinton years, when troops were reduced by 500,000, when almost 80 ships were retired from our Navy, and when our human intelligence was slashed by 25 percent. We were told we were getting a peace dividend. We got the dividend; we didn't get the peace. (APPLAUSE) In the face of evil and radical jihad, and given the inevitable military ambitions of China, we must act to rebuild our military might, raise military spending to 4 percent of our GDP, purchase the most modern armament, reshape our fighting forces for the asymmetric demands we now face, and give the veterans the care they deserve. (APPLAUSE) Soon the face of liberalism in America will have a new name. Whether it's Barack or Hillary, the result would be the same if they were to be able to... (BOOING) ... if they were to be able to win the presidency. ROMNEY: The opponents of American culture would push the throttle, devising new justifications for judges to depart from the Constitution. And economic neophytes would layer heavier and heavier burdens on employers and families, slowing our economy, opening the way for foreign competition to further erode our lead. Even though we face an uphill fight, I know that many in this room are fully behind my campaign. (APPLAUSE) AUDIENCE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! ROMNEY: You are with me all the way to the convention. Fight on, just like Ronald Reagan did in 1976. (APPLAUSE) But there is an important difference from 1976. Today we are a nation at war. And Barack and Hillary have made their intentions clear regarding Iraq and the war on terror: They would retreat, declare defeat. And the consequence of that would be devastating. It would mean attacks on America, launched from safe havens that would make Afghanistan under the Taliban look like child's play. About this, I have no doubt. Now, I disagree with Senator McCain on a number of issues, as you know. But I agree with him on doing whatever it takes to be successful in Iraq, and finding and executing Osama bin Laden. (APPLAUSE) And I agree with him on eliminating Al Qaida and terror worldwide. Now, if I fight on, in my campaign, all the way to the convention... ROMNEY: ... I want you to know, I've given this a lot of thought -- I'd forestall the launch of a national campaign and, frankly, I'd make it easier for Senator Clinton or Obama to win. Frankly, in this time of war, I simply cannot let my campaign be a part of aiding a surrender to terror. (APPLAUSE) This isn't an easy decision. I hate to lose. My family, my friends, you, my supporters across the country, you've given a great deal to get me to where I have a shot to becoming president. If this were only about me, I'd go on. But it's never been only about me. I entered this race -- I entered this race because I love America. And because I love America, in this time of war, I feel I have to now stand aside for our party and for our country. AUDIENCE: No! No! ROMNEY: You guys are great. (APPLAUSE) I will continue to stand for conservative principles. I'll fight alongside you for all the things we believe in. And one of the things we believe in is that we cannot allow the next president of the United States to retreat in the face of evil extremism. (APPLAUSE) It is the common task of each generation and the burden of liberty to preserve this country, expand its freedoms and renew its spirit, so that its noble past is prologue to its glorious future. To this task, accepting this burden, we're all dedicated. And I firmly believe, by the providence of the Almighty, that we will succeed beyond our fondest hope. America must always remain, as it has always been, the hope of the Earth. Thank you so very much. I love you. Thank you. (APPLAUSE)
Thank you. Thank you so very much. Ann and I love you all. We have a deep feeling in our hearts for you. (APPLAUSE) We respect you for the values you have and the vision we have for America together. Thank you so much, our dear friends. We sure love you. Thank you. You know, for decades now, the Washington sun has been rising in the east. You see, Washington has been looking to the eastern elites, to the editorial pages of the Times and the Post, and to the broadcasters from the -- from the coast. Yes. If America really wants to change, it's time to look for the sun in the west, because it's about to rise and shine from Arizona and Alaska. (APPLAUSE) Last week, the Democratic convention talked about change. But what do you think? Is Washington now, liberal or conservative? Let me ask you some questions. Is a Supreme Court decision liberal or conservative that awards Guantanamo terrorists with constitutional rights? It's liberal. Is a government liberal or conservative that puts the interests of the teachers union ahead of the needs of our children? It's liberal. Is a Congress liberal or conservative that stops nuclear power plants and off-shore drilling, making us more and more dependent on Middle Eastern tyrants? It's liberal. Is government spending, putting aside inflation, liberal or conservative if it doubles since 1980? It's liberal. We need change all right: change from a liberal Washington to a conservative Washington. (APPLAUSE) We have a prescription for every American who wants change in Washington: Throw out the big government liberals and elect John McCain and Sarah Palin. (APPLAUSE) It's the same prescription for a stronger economy. I spent 25 years in the private sector. I've done business in many foreign countries. I know why jobs come and why they go away. And I know that liberals don't have a clue. (LAUGHTER) They think that we have the biggest and strongest economy in the world because of our government. They're wrong. America is strong because of the ingenuity, and entrepreneurship, and hard work of the American people. The American people have always been the source of our nation's strength, and they always will be. (APPLAUSE) We strengthen our people and our economy when we preserve and promote opportunity. Opportunity is what lets hope become reality. ROMNEY: Opportunity expands when there's excellence and choice in education, when taxes are lowered, when every citizen has affordable, portable health insurance, and when constitutional freedoms are preserved. Opportunity rises when children are raised in homes and schools that are free from pornography, and promiscuity, and drugs, where there are homes that are blessed with family values and the presence of a mom and a dad. (APPLAUSE) America -- America cannot long lead the family of nations if we fail the family here at home. (APPLAUSE) You see, liberals would replace opportunity with dependency on government largesse. They grow government and raise taxes to put more people on Medicaid, to take work requirements out of welfare, and to grow the ranks of those who pay no taxes at all. Dependency is death to initiative, to risk-taking and opportunity. It's time to stop the spread of government dependency and fight it like the poison it is. (APPLAUSE) You know, it's time for the party of big ideas, not the party of Big Brother. (APPLAUSE) Our economy is under attack. China is acting like Adam Smith on steroids, buying oil from the world's worst and selling nuclear technology. Russia and the oil states are siphoning more than $500 billion a year from us in what could become the greatest transfer of economic wealth in the history of the world. This is no time for timid, liberal, empty gestures. Our economy has slowed down this year, and a lot of people are hurting. What happened? Mortgage money was handed out like candy, and speculators bought homes for free. And when this mortgage mania finally broke, it slammed the economy. And stratospheric gas prices made things even worse. Democrats want to use the slowdown as an excuse to do what their special interests are always begging for: higher taxes, bigger government, and less trade with other nations. It's the same path Europe took a few decades ago. It leads to moribund growth and double-digit unemployment. The right course is the one championed by Ronald Reagan 30 years ago and by John McCain and Sarah Palin today. (APPLAUSE) The right course is to rein in government spending, lower taxes, take a weed-whacker to excessive regulation and mandates, put a stop to tort windfalls, and to stand up to the tyrannosaurus appetite of government unions. (APPLAUSE) The right course -- the right course is to pursue every source of energy security, from new efficiencies to renewables, from coal to non-CO-2 producing nuclear, and for the immediate drilling for more oil off our shores. (APPLAUSE) And I have -- I have one more recommendation for energy conservation: Let's keep Al Gore's private jet on the ground. (APPLAUSE) Last week, last week, did you hear any Democrats talk about the threat from radical, violent jihad? No. You see, Republicans believe that there is good and evil in the world. Ronald Reagan called out the evil empire. George Bush labeled the terror-sponsor states exactly what they are: the axis of evil. And at Saddleback, after Barak Obama dodged and ducked every direct question, John McCain hit the nail on the head: Radical, violent Islam is evil, and he will defeat it. (APPLAUSE) This party... AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! ROMNEY: You're hearing it here. You're hearing it here, and they're hearing it across the country. You see, in this party, in this room tonight, and all over America, people in our party prefer straight talk to politically correct talk. (APPLAUSE) Republicans, led by John McCain and Sarah Palin, will fight to preserve the values that have preserved the nation. We'll strengthen our economy and keep us from being held hostage by Putin, Chavez, and Ahmadinejad. And we will never allow America to retreat in the face of evil extremism. (APPLAUSE) Just like you, just like you, there's never been a day when I was not proud to be an American. (APPLAUSE) We -- we Americans inherited the greatest nation in the history of the Earth. It's our burden and our privilege to preserve it, to renew its spirit so that its noble past is prologue to its glorious future. To this we're all dedicated. And I firmly believe, by the providence of the almighty, that we will succeed. President McCain and Vice President Palin will keep America as it has always been: the hope of the Earth. Thank you, and God bless America.
